Most
children acquire the same eye color or a similar shaped nose from their parents,
but I’ve inherited much more: a passion for learning and an insatiable curiosity
which has served me well throughout my academic career. My father, an
electrical engineer, taught me to explore the world with inquisitive eyes,
constantly seeking to learn more, to understand more. I watched him for hours
as he worked on elevator schematics at home, wondering what all the various
symbols and lines meant. I was fascinated by technology and wanted to know how
and why things worked the way they did.
My
playground was a jumble of old circuit boards, spare electric wire, and an
assortment of broken appliances. I spent hours disassembling and tinkering with
the amazing treasures I found lying around our garage. My mother, a first grade
teacher, noticed my intellectual curiosity and encouraged my childhood
explorations. She gave me piles of mind-opening children’s books, which I
willingly read. Books like “What Makes Popcorn Pop, and Other Questions
about the World around Us” allowed me to discover the irresistible appeal of
imaginative questions and their fascinating answers.
“How
does this toaster work?” “What’s inside this VCR?” I was never satisfied with the
simplified answers that my parents gave to these questions. So I discovered many
answers for myself by exploring and experimenting.I
was given a remarkable amount of freedom at a young age. When I was 8, my
parents bought an old computer for $25 from a local yard sale with the
intention of letting me loose on it. I was thrilled. Motivated by curiosity, I
delved into it at once and learned how to use each and every feature of the
computer’s antiquated MS-DOS operating system. With my father’s help and an old
programming book by my side, I even created simple videogames for my younger
brother to play.
My
parents taught me to be independent and self-motivated by providing me
opportunities to learn by trial and error. I recall an episode where my parents
bought a new microwave when I was just 10 years old. As they unpacked the
microwave, I caught sight of the owner’s manual and asked to see it. After reading
the 40-page text front-to-back, I learned one very important thing: how to use
a feature called “child lock,” or as I saw it, “parent lock.” By pressing a
special sequence of buttons on the microwave, I disabled it, thus protecting my
parents from the dangers of using the appliance without my supervision. Until
this day, the first thing I do after buying a new gadget is read the entire
manual, in search of nifty features.
My
intellectual curiosity is the result of a unique combination of early
influences and childhood experiences which have fueled my passion for learning
inside and outside of the classroom -- learning from everything I do. I hope to
continue applying this curiosity to all aspects of my life, exploring the world
through the eyes of my childhood persona. By refusing to accept the obvious
explanation, refusing to settle for a superficial understanding, and refusing
to endure the status quo, great American innovators like my role model Benjamin
Franklin created new knowledge, new technologies, and new innovations. I strive
to do the same. It’s part of who I am, and what drives me to become successful
and happy.
Dreams are shaped by ideals and families shape the beliefs we grasp so strongly. Someday I want to save and change lives through a medical career. Because my family has taught me that change can be positive and radical in altering lives, I hope to hold that ability someday. I seek the power to improve my life as well as the lives of those around me. And most of all because of those who have raised me I dedicate a path of personal improvement and the formation of a dedicated individual who promotes good character.
My father was a doctor in Argentina, but when we immigrated to the United States his chance to shape a brighter future was inhibited by his limited mastery of the English language. My greatest yearning is to keep his dreams alive and to be someone like my father who raised my brother and me after divorcing my mother. I watched my father's future fall apart, I watched his zeal and ambition be held back, I watched and could do nothing. Now I dream of reviving those dreams he once dreamt. With the fire that fuels me I want to become as great and as inspiring as my father is to me.
I aspire to building a brighter future for my family, as well as myself, because I was clay and theirs were the artist's hands. My father taught me the gratification of hard work, and because of that I respect him whole-heartedly even if he isn't as wealthy as other men. My brother taught me the lesson of change, because he has become a better person right before my eyes. And the rest of my passing influences have taught me to care for those in need and to see the world through the eyes of others.
Sometimes in life it is best to take a step back and look at the big picture. With all the demands and commitments that life can put on a person, it is sometimes easy to lose the essence of “the me”… whether it’s a mother trying to balance a job, a family, a house, shopping, meals and a husband; or a student with the pressure of school, sports, clubs, community service and friends to name a few. Where is the time for hobbies, interests and self-exploration? Where is the time to get to know “the me”?
Looking back at freshman year, my life was like a cityscape, busy and vibrant.  I was just another young soul eager to meet life’s challenges. I proudly reached certain goals that defined the student I wanted to be: made it into the science institute: check, varsity soccer: check, a nationally ranked soccer team: check, clubs: check, job: check, volunteer work: check. Am I forgetting anything? Sleep, food, friends, downtime… Who needs it? It turns out the answer is ME!
In this busy canvas, life’s commitments became the artist and I became just a stroke of paint getting stretched too thin. I felt tired, over committed and ineffective.
I knew I would need to regain control to balance the colors within my portrait. Sometimes when we put in so much time and effort but do not see the desired results, it is hard not to see this as a personal failure. That is how I felt by the end of sophomore year. I decided to scrap the old canvas and begin anew. Junior year, I became the artist once more, and I chose the palette of my interests. I left the science institute, changed travel soccer teams, and chose volunteer work that I really enjoyed. With a less crowded landscape, there was so much more focus and time for “the me” to emerge.
Newfound interests and talents became a part of my life that I never had time for before. I was able to keep the original colors on my canvas: school, soccer and everything that made me, me before. However I was able to add new ones such as art, photography and become a more out outgoing individual. I was passionate about everything I was doing and much more effective in each aspect I took part in. Stepping back and looking at the big picture taught me to make decisions that were best for me, and not for those around me. I am able to create a picture that, to me, is a masterpiece even if others see it as painted colors.
The emergence of “the me” is a life long work in progress as we are always adding color, dimension, and interests as we grow. Sometimes by choosing the colors of our picture more carefully, more depth can be added to the picture that clarifies “the me”. Whether you choose to create your canvas as a cityscape, a peaceful park, or a leaf blowing in the wind, be sure to be the artist that defines the colors of your “ME”.
I am an Internet entrepreneur. Since age 12, I have coded and designed websites -- for my school, the local community, and as a personal hobby and pastime. In fact, I started my own Internet business in 2004 and was hired as a webmaster by Intel Corporation this past summer. I also volunteer my free time to run the website of the largest community service club at my high school, Key Club. My interest in Internet technology started out as a mere curiosity and casual pursuit, but has steadily evolved into an intellectual passion that defines who I am today.
When I first signed onto the Net at age 10, I felt a curiosity and zeal unlike anything I had felt before. The Net was my new toy and I wanted to know what made it tick. Thus began my quest for answers. I learned HTML, the basic building blocks of every website. Next, I taught myself JavaScript, Cascading Style Sheets, PHP, MySQL, XML . . . and the list goes on.
At age 14, I started an Internet business called FreeTheFlash Entertainment. The website, (www.FreeTheFlash.com), is a multimedia entertainment portal that collects user-submitted videos, flash animations, and games from all over the Net. In the process of starting and maintaining this website I’ve learned leadership, communication, and business skills that literally define who I am today. I’ve learned that innovation and new ideas are crucial in creating anything successful and worthwhile in today’s rapidly evolving technological landscape.
In the last year alone, my website reached over 620,000 visitors who viewed over 3 million webpages. I’m proud of my web development talent because it allows me to share my creativity with the world, while providing others a vehicle to share their creativity as well.    
Upon first sight of my room, you might get the impression that I am an unorganized, pack-rat slob. There are piles of clothes lying in heaps around the room and the only way to determine if they are clean or dirty is to sniff each article of clothing individually. Empty videogame boxes are arranged inventively on my dresser and floor. The bed is a mess and the pillows are nowhere to be seen. You may say to yourself,  I can't room with someone like this.  But, remember the familiar adage  you can't judge a book by its cover?  That is as true as can be when it comes to me.
Don't get me wrong. It's not like I couldn't straighten up my room if I wanted to -- but I'd much rather be reading the latest issue of Fortune Small Business magazine, studying, or rolling out new improvements to my half-dozen websites. I'm always scheming something new; I've been known to spend many hours dreaming up fresh business ideas. Fortunately, this  messiness  is only limited to my room, and no other parts of my life. I'm consistently ahead of the game with my homework and I meet every extracurricular commitment without a hitch. Perhaps it's because I never skip a beat in my school, social, and business lives, that I'm forced to skip several beats when it comes to cleaning my room. With only 24 hours in a day, I must prioritize the order in which I tackle projects. For this reason, cleaning my room often takes a back seat to that upcoming Calculus II test or the launch of that new website I've been working on for the last 3 months...
For six years I've been designing websites and Internet applications -- doing what I enjoy, what I excel at. I've pursued my ambitions and developed a fervor for Internet technology as a medium for expressing ideas and communicating knowledge. I've learned first-hand the power of this technology to reach out and make connections with people, to effect change, to make a difference in the world.
There is no better place to study Internet technology than Stanford, the foundation for many of Silicon Valley's most innovative companies -- Google, Yahoo!, Hewlett-Packard, and Sun Microsystems. I want to be immersed in a learning environment that encourages innovation, teaches creativity, and fosters an entrepreneurial spirit. I want to go to a school where I can live among students who have the same appreciation for learning and drive towards excellence that I have.
My dream is to push the envelope of Internet technology past its existing boundaries and limitations, to bring new innovations and new ideas to the global marketplace. What better place to strive for this dream than at Stanford? With esteemed programs like Stanford Technology Ventures and the Mayfield Fellows Program, a world-class faculty, and state-of-the art research facilities, Stanford is the ideal university for the budding Internet entrepreneur like me to excel both academically and socially.
There is still a lot to be learned about software and the Internet, and I hope to be on the forefront of new developments. I'm not afraid to break tradition; to do things better than they’ve been done before. At Stanford, the leading institute in Internet development, I can make my dreams of leading the Internet to a new generation a reality.
It is incredible how social environment plays such a great role in a person’s holistic development. It is like the butterfly effect on an individual, yet grand scale. Each decision is like a ripple that spreads out uniformly, increases many fold, and eventually changes the person’s future. While one can never be sure, I am confident that the people around me – my family, my teachers, and my friends – have all influenced my life in a positive manner.
Of all the factors mentioned before, my parents have undoubtedly been the most prominent source of love and encouragement.
My father owned an engineering equipment manufacturing unit. As a kid who accompanied his father to work once a week after school, I was always mesmerized to see big machines come together and seemingly move on their own. Eventually, I started tinkering with whatever I could find lying around. That’s when he decided it would be unwise to leave me unsupervised, and my weekly trips came to an end. But my mother, recognizing my interest and willing to let it develop into something constructive, got me the best possible gift. It was a set of ‘Mechanix – an engineering system for creative kids’.
Mechanix had everything I needed and a manual that helped me to build fully mechanical models. After some explanation and trial and error sessions with my father, I could build them myself, and eventually, I started building models that weren’t there in the manual – my own models. This was my first and early step into the world of engineering.
As I grew older, I got especially interested in STEM. Luckily, I found some classmates who were just as passionate about these subjects; classmates who are now some of my closest friends. Becoming a part of their group was my ‘red pill, blue pill’ moment, and I made the right choice. It showed me where I stood against the best students in the school, and it was just a matter of time before I caught up and became one of them.
In grade eleven, I was elected to the students’ council. This gave me access to the school’s resources, and something that has been yet another factor in deciding the progression of my academic career; the support of other council members. Also, since we had shared interests and were in the good books of our teachers, we seldom hesitated in talking to them (and sometimes, directly to our principal) about something we wanted to do. In hindsight, this was a huge privilege, and was only possible in a relatively small school like mine.
By mid-2012, I became rather good at programming, and felt I wasn’t being challenged enough by the school curriculum. My friends had similar opinions, so we decided to form an IT club in school, which would train members for inter-school programming events. The ‘Endofline Computer Club’ was officially recognized by the school in July 2012. Subsequently, we started participating in many inter-school programming events. But for me, it wasn’t always about the trophy or cash prize – it was about interacting with fellow programmers and learning from them. Getting to meet interesting people was a great incentive for participation, and the prospect of winning was always pushing me to give my best.
There are small schools - small communities, which foster better understanding and interaction between their members, give each member the chance to express their ideas and make it easier to be at the top, or even good enough to be a representative – and there are huge schools – large, rigid communities that have established institutions which admit members based on merit. These institutions are full of highly able individuals that have gone through rigorous selection procedures, and perform consistently well in their respective field.  I wonder if I’d have ever found a new club at a huge school. Thankfully, my school lies right at the cusp. It is small enough for a student to receive ample attention, and has a wide-spread network of alumni as well.
Throughout high-school, I’ve had opportunities to network with some of the brightest students of the country and from abroad, along with the support of family and friends, who’ve always encouraged me to follow my dreams and achieve excellence. And that’s precisely what I want to do; become an excellent aerospace engineer.
Break your wrist. Feel your bone cracking, your sinew twisting, your nerves splitting. You slipped while doing roundhouse kicks and landed on your wrist instead. The paper-thin padding of the dojo does nothing to cushion the impact with the concrete beneath. The master wraps your broken wrist in the board, which you still managed to break, and some duct tape.
The truth in that last sentence is sneakier than it looks, because pain needs someone to feel it. Comb the universe atom by atom, and you will not find a single atom of pain; it is, rather, an experience. One who gets rid of the thought of pain will be rid of the pain itself. That is why a doctor with the authoritative voice and a charismatic quack can both relieve pain: they eliminate not the nerve signals which inform the brain that a wrist is broken, but the thoughts in the brain which tell the consciousness that it is in pain. You feel pain.
Have this delicious piece of cake. It is rich and luscious and velvety and smooth, the best piece of cake you have ever had. Have another slice. A third. A fourth. A forty-eighth. How do you feel about cake now?
Anything can cause pain. But I can keep my perspective. Like Solomon looking at his ring, I remember: “this too, shall pass.” A broken wrist. A spell of vomiting. Acute embarrassment. A triumphant score on a test. All these, and more, shall pass. I can still punch a board in two. I can still enjoy cake. I can still get out in front of an audience and speak. I can still try to humble myself. And what if I do lose something permanently? I lose my wrist: I gain a topic of conversation and thought.
It is not quite a Stoic philosophy. A Stoic believes that virtue, as in the improvement of moral fortitude, is necessary and sufficient for happiness. I do not believe that. A dog may be happy, and truly happy at that, with a bone. I could be truly happy with a slice of cake, eaten on a comfy couch in front of a fireplace away from a torrential rainstorm without a care in the world, like Omar Kayaam with his “jug of wine, a loaf of bread, and thou,” no matter how unvirtuous I may be.
The car comes to a quick stop, the kind that should have smashed my knees into the back of the seat in front of me, had they, not already been. "Okay sweetie, we're here." I get out and walk towards the front door. But stop when Officer Stancil yells, "Wait!" I turn around and she says, "Good luck." At the time, I wasn't sure what she meant by that. But I found out soon enough. "My name is Matthew Kraus, but you may call me Matt." White chocolate skin, dark chocolate hair, and milk chocolate eyes. "I work here at Holly Hill or as some call it, Disneyland." Disney or Holly Hell? "First, let's take your picture." He grabs an old Nikon from his desk drawer and says, "Look right in the middle." Unsure of whether to smile and not enough time to decide, out came a sly grin. "Okay, looks great." I think I blinked. "Now take this clipboard and fill out this paperwork. When you finish, bring it back, someone will be with you shortly." I grab a blue pen with a round tip and flexible body and start to fill out the papers. Fifteen minutes and twenty-five signatures later, I flip to the last page. As I sign my last signature, the door to my left opens abruptly. "Cameron Leonard?" I hand Matt the papers and walk towards a paper-thin man with large glasses, large ears, and a large nose. "My name is Doctor Lester. Follow me, please."
We walk into a key operated elevator and stand in silence until the door opens on the third floor. The entire floor has two doors. The right door was for children ages thirteen through seventeen. The left door was for children ages eight through twelve. Doctor Lester opens the door on the right and says, "I wish you the best of luck." I thank him and try to figure out why the left door exists. I cannot believe how normal everyone is. Is this a high school or a mental hospital? Why is everybody here? I expected euphemisms: drugs, assault, and depression. Instead, I am told: meth head, attempted murder, and suicide. There were prosthetics under pants, scars under sleeves, and frowns under smiles. "Hi Cameron, my name is Patricia." Bleach blond hair and bright red nails. "I will be your psychiatrist during your time here. This is Tina she will be your roommate." Average height, average weight, pretty face. "Hey! Nice to meet you. Come with me, I'll show you around." I follow her down the hall to room 1352. "This is our shower. The water comes out for ten seconds before turning off, you have to keep pressing the button." Incredible. "This is our mirror. It's made of fake glass, you can barely see yourself in it." Amazing. "And this is your bed. It's hard, but you get used to it." Wonderful. "Take my advice, I've been here for a while." How long? What did you do? "Don't get on anybody's nerves, don't tell the doctors the truth, and don't forget to smile. That's the only way you'll survive in here." I thank her for the advice and she leaves our room. As I sit alone on the cheap mattress it all hits me. Hard.
Small things make big differences. This is a truth I have come to see in my own experiences and in the world. A tech-addict since a young age, at thirteen I decided the best way to get my hands on a few smartphones was to start a YouTube channel dedicated to reviewing them. Within nine months, I received my first product for review from a then major tech company, Nokia.
In reviewing products, I became a more critical person — often, an obscure weakness can massively diminish an otherwise stellar product. A smartphone could be great in every way, but if you have to contort your hand to reach the power button, the whole package could be ruined.
My detailed reviews gained traction with a growing audience and [redacted 1] became quite successful. Our coverage expanded to include news, opinions and longer-form content as well. With expansion, came the challenge of managing a growing team distributed across the United States and Canada. Keeping morale high and motivating people to do their best work was a constant activity. Everyday I would stir up conversation in our ‘team chat’ and try to keep interest levels high. My efforts paid off, and our team stayed attentive and prepared — after all, news could break at any time.
It started with wanting to try a few smartphones and became something much bigger. Along the way, I met people that I never would have otherwise, unearthed my passions and discovered who I am today. Reviewing products, leading a team and setting up internships in New York and California were the biggest highlights of my life — but all of this I did from my bedroom, a pretty small place. Small things make big differences.