I sat on the grainy wood floor of the art studio, dog-earing pages of Van Gogh’s early charcoal sketches of poor, working men. With few lines and simple shape, he was able to convey an entire existence. With sweeping and curved strokes, he created cypress trees in motion, swaying back and forth. In my own work, I wanted to replicate the masters. I relished the slow and concentrated process of drawing and painting, the mixing and layering of color, the shading underneath a cheekbone or on the crease of an eyelid, all to represent exactly what I saw. 

This past summer I was confronted with a new way of thinking about art. Make a monument to anything. Create an image of a memory you have. At Cowhouse Studios, an intensive summer art program, I was asked to respond to prompts like these. This was exactly what I hadn’t wanted. It didn’t help my shading or brush strokes, it didn’t require intensive focus or precision. These were flimsy, unfinished, temporary exercises…and yet, I ended up with a few memorable images: a tall, thin French kid named Paul standing unassumingly on the base of a stone monument; a man with a mug of coffee for a head, the coffee running into his intestines; an image of a pair of scissors crafted out of tape, water, and holes in the paper. Seeing these works laid out on the floor alongside those of twenty other kids made me question my perspective. 

Through critiques, artist talks, and trips to conceptual art galleries I started to formulate more and more questions about this world of art that seemed to be blossoming before my eyes. Must art have some aesthetically pleasing quality, or can it just be a visual representation of an idea? How much information should be included when artwork is presented, and is that information itself an aspect of the work of art? Is an artwork’s visceral or intellectual effect more important?

My final project combined aspects of my old thinking about literal representation and my new considerations about art. My subjects were rappers who seem to lose their own identity in the brands they wear, transformed into walking billboards. I used watercolor to paint portraits of them, but replaced their heads with an upside down boot in one case, and a toaster in the other. A man with a boot on his head, given no other context, meant nothing to me intellectually but it had visceral appeal. I had been thinking about issues of consumer identity in 1950’s America since I had watched Mad Men, read Death of a Salesman, and studied the period in AP U.S. History the year before. I found myself integrating my new thoughts about art and my interest in history and pop culture into my artwork. Yet I still spent hours on the technical details, working around the negative space of the dots on the rapper’s dark blue shirt, shading the tones of his yellow jacket. 

This past summer, my narrow view regarding the scope of art was busted open and a vast and beautiful world was revealed to me. I had never really had an interest in theater, but a friend took me to Anton Chekov’s Uncle Vanya, prompting me to discuss Chekov’s plays with my dad when I got home. Before I came to Bronx Science, I was solely a “humanities person,” but an inspiring teacher my freshman year sparked a fascination with biology. Clearly, much still remains for me to explore, and to explore more deeply. My education has just begun.﻿When I was four years-old, I fell in love. It was not a transient
love-one that stayed by my side during the good times and vanished
during the bad-but rather a love so deep that few would understand.
It was not the love for a person, but the love for a language. It was the
love for Spanish.
Having been born and raised behind the Iron Curtain, in a country
where Western influence was limited and the official and only language
was romanian, I was on my own. Everyone around me, especially my
family, had trouble understanding what could possibly draw me to
such a foreign and, in their opinion, unattractive language. But as they
say, love is blind, and the truth of the matter is that I wasn’t even sure
what it was exactly that made Spanish so fascinating to me. The only
thing I knew was that I absolutely adored hearing its perfectly articulated
phrases, and trying to make sense of its sweet and tender words:
serenades to my innocent ear.
Spanish entered through my door on June 16th, 1994, when a man
from the local cable company came to connect our living room to the
rest of the world. That day, I was introduced to “Acasa,” a romanian
cable network dedicated to broadcasting Spanish language telenovelas
(soap operas) to romanian audiences. As I learned to read, I started associating
the romanian subtitles with the Spanish dialogue, and little
by little, I began understanding the language. For a little girl who had
yet to discover new aspects of her own language, this was quite an accomplishment,
but no one around me felt the same way. My father,
enraged at my apparent “obsession” with the language, scolded me incessantly,
declaring that:
“We are immigrating to the United States, not to Mexico! You should
spend your time learning English instead of watching that nonsense!”
Sadly, my family’s objection was only the first of many hardships
I was bound to encounter. When I was nine, my immigration to the
US forced me to say goodbye to what had become a huge and indispensible
part of me. I needed to hear Spanish, to listen to it daily, and
although Los Angeles could be considered a Spanish speaker’s paradise,
my largely romanian neighborhood allowed for little interaction with
the language. For six years, destiny kept us apart and the feelings that
Spanish had evoked in me soon faded away.
But high school brought about a new era in my life, an era in which
my love for Spanish was revived and greatly amplified. For an hour a
day, life was put on hold and I was able to speak and read Spanish more
actively than ever. After two years of Advanced Placement Spanish, I
not only understood the language to perfection, but spoke it flawlessly
as well.
There are no words that can describe how proud and greatly accomplished
I feel today at my ability to speak Spanish. During a recent
trip to Mexico, I was mistaken more than once for one of the natives.
One man, after seeing my romanian last name, asked me if it was my
husband’s, for undoubtedly, he believed, I was Mexican. given to a
romanian girl, whose family members were oblivious to the language,
and who had learned it on her own despite their objections, this was
the greatest compliment of all. In the United States, Spanish is the second
most spoken language and a great asset for anyone who speaks
it. It is not “nonsense,” as my father had dubbed it, and being able to
prove this to him has made me even prouder for loving Spanish.
My love of Spanish has influenced much of who I am today. The
fight that I led against family objections and immigration to a new land
has allowed me to develop an ambitious and aggressive spirit in the
face of adversity. It has made me stronger, and taught me that I must
always fight with unstoppable perseverance for all that is important to
me. I am determined to use my love and passion for Spanish to make
an impact on the world. Currently, Spanish is the primary language
of 21 nations around the globe, and one of the six official languages
of the Un. I want to be the link that connects these nations to the
United States, and to the 40 million Americans whose native language
is Spanish. I want to use my ability to speak Spanish to learn more
about the people of these nations, both on a professional and personal
level. no matter where the path of life takes me, I wish for Spanish to
always be a part of me.
Through the years, Spanish has evolved into one of my most remarkable
accomplishments. Today, I am prouder than ever of loving
Spanish-of having something that distinguishes me from the rest, something
that makes me unique. It is not often the case for a romanianAmerican
girl living in Los Angeles to exhibit such passion and devotion
towards a language that is foreign to both her native and adoptive
countries. nevertheless, Spanish is a big part of whom I am today, and
an even bigger part of who I will be in the future.
﻿“It appears all your cells are dead.”
Only shock prevented the tears from streaming down my face. My
cells were dead. After being accepted into the competitive Stanford
Institutes of Medicine Summer research Program (SIMr), and spending
approximately 170 hours of the past month manipulating human
embryonic stem cells (hESCs), I was back to square one—with only
one month of my internship remaining. How in the world was I going
to make up for lost time?
As I asked myself the question, I thought back to exactly how I had
spent those 170 hours, working to develop the stem cells which now,
under the microscope, were hollow with the absence of life.
I started my internship a little overwhelmed by the fancy hoods,
automatic pipettes, and high-speed centrifuges. But by the first of the
170 hours, I had familiarized myself with the equipment and begun
my quest to find the function of PrDM1—a gene thought to control
replication in hESCs. First though, I needed to make a growth medium
for the hESCs. I painstakingly measured to the ten millionth of a liter, 
testing the accuracy of each measurement multiple times before finally
dispensing it into the medium solution. After I had plated the hESCs
on my new medium, I waited with bated breath for the results.
To my joy, two days later, my cells were thriving and even outgrowing
their new home. Known for their ability to quickly replicate, it was
logical they would need to be frequently transferred. The difficult part
was that, as part of my experiment to find the purpose of PrDM1, I
had different strains of hESCs (some serving as “control” strains) which
could not be mixed. Transferring hESCs is a process requiring great
concentration and coordination. It took me about three hours the first
time. By the end of the month, though, transferring was second nature
and my cells were doing well—I had inserted a fluorescent protein
into their DnA to verify the hESCs containing the resistant vector were
living, as hypothesized. I had successfully created hundreds of stable
hESC colonies of different strains. Everything seemed to be going so
well . . .
But now was not the time to reminiscence. I snapped out of my
daydream and refocused on the situation at hand.
“Ariela? I know taking the news the first time can be hard, but keep
in mind, you probably didn’t do anything wrong. You know how sensitive
they are . . . this sort of thing is common when working with stem
cells.”
“I know,” I said, smiling genuinely this time, “I’m ready to try
again.”
My project was not completed by the end of the summer, but
through hard work, I was able to replicate parts of the experiment to
produce valuable data. Although the experiment did not go as planned,
I am proud of myself for persevering. As Thomas Edison said, “Our
greatest weakness lies in giving up. The most certain way to succeed is
always to try just one more time.”﻿The title of this piece is “Abuelo” which means grandfather
in Spanish. At first glance, it seems just a waste of a snapshot. Perhaps
just another struggling photographer trying to pay the rent or who simply
had one more shot left in a roll of film and took a random picture.
It is an 8" by 11" color photograph of a man’s neck, more specifically
the back of his neck. It is quite wrinkled and brown and white hair has
invaded the scalp. At first I questioned why the photographer did not
simply take a picture of his grandfather’s face. A face would allow viewers
to see what the grandfather looks like and tell some kind of story,
certainly more than what the back of his neck could possibly tell.
What I came to realize is that this is no random shot. What this picture
wants is for me to imagine and to create a story. It does not necessarily
wish to be framed but the picture does not want to be overlooked
or neglected. It wants to be given a chance to prove itself as equally
worthy as any other photograph. I do not need the face of the Abuelo
to imagine the story of his life or personality. The back of his neck is
just as important as his face.
After spending some time with this Abuelo I learned that the back
of his neck is not just brown, it is tanned. not just a natural tan, that
some people are born with, but a particular shade of tan that can only
be attained after continuous exposure to the sun. Perhaps this man
does a lot of work outside. The distinguished wrinkles are more than
just lines. In between them there seems to be some kind of dust. I recognize
this dust because it is the kind of dust my father gets when he is
working with joint compound.
After examining a little more closely I noticed the multiple scars
on his scalp which prevent his hair from growing. The tiny hole in his
earlobe reminds me that he was young once and had, like many young
teenage boys, pierced his ear. Around his neck I can see a glimpse of
a brown necklace. This necklace is very familiar to me because I own
one. It is a very thin string with a small rectangular cloth at both ends.
Many Catholics believe that it is something sacred.
In this case this picture is not measured by the thousands of words
it is worth, but it is measured by what I took from it. It should not be 
criticized by what it does not have but should be valued for what it
does have. I have found something in common with this photograph.
All along what this picture wanted from me was to find something familiar.
That familiarity sets this particular picture apart from all other
photographs I have encountered and what has kept it vividly visible
after having come across it years ago. This is exactly what this photograph
longed for: to be found familiar and remembered.﻿My reasons to be a doctor are very similar to why
most people choose their career path: I want to make things fairer.
People such as social workers are out to help make the world a little
less unjust. It’s not necessarily injustice from other people that I want to
fight as these people do, but injustice from other factors. Many people
who are close to me have been struck down from their future in ways
that it’s impossible for them to recover. My aunt was a great artist and
loving mother before she developed severe schizophrenia. She now
locks herself in her house for weeks at a time and remains isolated
from her family. My friend Eric, who was once in his school’s varsity
basketball league, cannot play his senior season because a car accident
left him nearly paralyzed. Finally, my friend vince’s depression has
stripped him of his will to live, and despite attempts of over a dozen
psychiatrists and medications he still spends most of his days aimlessly
lying in bed. While I try very hard to cheer him up by talking to and
entertaining him I am deeply concerned about his future. This trend is
something that I’m seeing almost everywhere. More and more people
are becoming depressed and hopeless, and I want to be able to put life
and happiness back into them.
not only do I see these injustices in my life, when I’m volunteering
at my local hospital my desire to help become even more emboldened
by the people I meet. A new grandmother I met recently had
her spine shattered when she fell from a ladder back onto a table. As I
talked to her, I remembered how many times I’ve seen pictures of my
science competitions and honors, including 2nd Place in Medicine
and Health at the Intel International Science and Engineering Fair and
become the Top Florida Presenter at the national Junior Science and
Humanities Symposium. My computer-aided designs were published
in Biomaterials Forum and the Journal of Thoracic and Cardiovascular
Surgery.
This remarkable experience inspired me to perform many additional
research projects and I consider it a turning point in my life. It has
increased my passion for research and my determination to be a physician
and work on devices or pharmaceuticals that improve people’s
quality of life. I have also become more confident in my research efforts
and am able to contact any researcher to pursue a position in
their laboratory. I have realized that there are many opportunities for
students like myself to contribute to labs and brainstorm solutions for
current problems.
grandmother lifting me and my cousins and caring for us, and became
overcome with emotion. While I don’t believe her ability to care for her
grandchildren will be destroyed, I know that she won’t have the same
opportunities as other grandparents and the inequality of the situation
makes me extremely upset. I want nothing more than to give back her
ability to walk and lift her grandkids. I believe being a doctor can allow
me to bring this closer.﻿He's in my arms, a new addition to the family. I’m too overwhelmed.
“That’s why I wanted you to go to Bishop Loughlin,” she
says, preparing baby bottles. “But ma, I chose Tech because I wanted to
be challenged.” “Well, you’re going to have to deal with it,” she replies,
adding, “Your aunt watched you when she was in high school.” “But
ma, there are three of them. It’s hard!”
returning home from a summer program that cemented intellectual
and social independence to find a new baby was not exactly thrilling.
Add him to the toddler and seven year old sister I have and there’s no
wonder why I sing songs from Blue’s Clues and The Backyardigans
instead of sane seventeen year old activities. It’s never been simple; as
a female and the oldest, I’m to significantly rear the children and clean
up the shabby apartment before an ounce of pseudo freedom reaches
my hands. If I can manage to get my toddler brother onto the city bus
and take him home from day care without snot on my shoulder, and if I
can manage to take off his coat and sneakers without demonic screaming
for no apparent reason, then it’s a good day. Only, waking up at
three in the morning to work, the only free time I have, is not my cup
of Starbucks.
We were already different at age fourteen. She gave birth to me and
went to an alternative high school; I established closeness with new
friends in a competitive high school. She and my then present father
were taking care of me; I was studying the environmental effects on
the onset of schizophrenia. She took her daughter to preschool, and
I vowed to never let anything get in the way of my academics. Even
though I’m taking courses that prepare me for a career in the medical
field, a path I would not pursue even at risk of spontaneous combustion
of Earth, there is no excuse for me to fail. After all, my family has a
reputation for failure, and if I don’t push myself, no one else will. When
I think of me not choosing the effortless Bishop Loughlin High School
and traditional fun with friends and preferring the intense courses,
dedication to achievement, and overall feeling of self-worth, I cannot
believe my mother still can’t accept my choice.
One thing I’ve learned growing up in Brooklyn is that disappointment
happens often. The bike I rode to school in the morning wasn’t there 
when I went to get it in the afternoon. That’s Brooklyn. Instead of
seeing movies with friends on weekends, I work hard and attempt to
keep the little kids out of my mom’s hair. That’s Brooklyn. Instead of
going outside to my backyard, I remember I don’t have one, and settle
for the 12’ by 6’ concrete space in front of my house. That’s Brooklyn.
My Brooklyn doesn’t feature flowers of the freshest air or people who
smile and say hi. Instead, there’s what might have been Orbit gum on
the floor among the other thousand wads, a pool of strangely colored
vomit, and the monotonous working class boarding the subway to the
job it will complain about when it returns home.
If there’s anything that Brooklyn has taught me, it’s “just do it.” I owe
it to myself to keep trying, not because I have to, but because I want to
prove to myself that I can. I’ll have to endure the requirements of helping
to raise my siblings and other responsibilities. After the chaos and
traffic and noise have settled, I know I’ve made the right choice, even if
my mother hasn’t. And it’s all worth it.﻿The alarm clock is, to many high school students, a wailing 
monstrosity whose purpose is to torture all who are sleep-deprived.
Those who believe this are misguided, and are simply viewing the situation
from a twisted perspective. For when these imprudent early-risers
blearily rub their eyes each morning, and search in vain for whatever
is making that earsplitting noise, they are, without a doubt, annoyed.
Why?
It isn’t because the only thing they desire is to sleep a few extra
hours, as many would presume. no, these kids are groggy and irritable
because they are waking up to what they think will be another horribly
boring day of school. If one of these foolish Sallys or Joes were,
say, sleeping comfortably on a Saturday morning, I could certainly see
something different happening. A beautiful breakfast of tantalizing vittles—eggs,
hash browns, and the like—would be ready and waiting for
them on their kitchen tables. But the scrumptious delight to outshine
them all would be a slab of bacon, piled proudly for the taking 
would be that wafting, wondrous bacon smell that would draw dear,
sweet Sally abruptly from her slumber—long before an alarm clock has
the chance to pierce the air.
Oh, bacon: what a marvelous, glorious thing! I live for those heartstoppingly
good strips of succulence, so crispy and crunchy, so packed
with perfection. The thought of having a plate of bacon every day, perhaps
every school day, sends me into sheer waves of ecstasy!
To be sure, many others would also wax poetic about this lovely
breakfast food. But precious few would share this same zeal for learning.
I, however, can smugly decree that I do regard both very highly. I
brightly waken every morning to the mellifluous joy that sounds from
my alarm clock, a huge smile plastered on my face, and the yearning
to learn in my heart.
When I board my school bus Monday through Friday, it is still pitch
black outside. Busmates will groan about how even the day has not
yet dragged itself out of bed; I only chuckle through their thirty-minute
rant fest as we chug down the freeway. Opting to be part of a faraway
Magnet school, after all, has its benefits. My peers may still not
look forward to waking up earlier, but when we are all together in
a classroom, we take on the “bacon mentality.” I have the opportunity
to choose from a wealth of diverse classes, and love arriving to
school each day with the prospect of having a new Spanish History
lesson—taught to me in Spanish, for a change. Teachers, driven by
the enthusiasm of their Magnet students, are inspired to create new
classes for advanced students, including those who have completed AP
Spanish Literature and are still eager to learn more, or those who want
to learn about a specific aspect of a subject—we now have a Middle
Eastern History class. not to be outdone, the post-AP exam period
of my English Language class included an intensive literature study,
where we laughed at good ol’ Yossarian in Catch-22, and developed a
strong attachment to Jay gatsby. I’d like to think that The Great Gatsby’s
pursuit of Daisy is not unlike my own pursuit of bacon. I’ve gobbled up
new knowledge rapidly, hankering after it like any elusive bacon strip,
and happily digesting any new bits of information.
But six classes a year are simply not enough to satisfy my hunger
for knowledge. Just as I eat bacon all three meals of the day (when possible),
I attempt to learn all days of the week. rather than make another
trip to some lackluster movie theatre on the weekend, I dedicate my
time to reading another good book, or reviewing Economics with my
friends. But high school is starting to smell like leftovers to me now; I
want fresh, new, crisp learning. I want not to read a textbook written by
a renowned professor: I want to hear him speak directly. I’m ready for
the university, and hunger for all the new opportunities waiting for me!
I’ve finished my breakfast, and now it’s time to get going to school.﻿The giant brown bear is creeping quietly behind the blissfully
pink duck ready to wring his bare paws around her neck and
throw her into a pot of boiling stew.
We turned the page.
While I chuckled at the impracticality of a bear boiling water to eat
a duck, especially a pink duck, I lifted my head to find Matthew tiptoeing
about the room exhibiting the meanest, most ferocious look his
cute face could conjure. All the while, little Monica sat huddled next
to my arm honestly afraid to turn the page and find her favorite pink
creature in a bear’s “tummy.”
It was one of those moments of my hours spent reading with children
at the library when it dawned just how much, as a “grown up,” I
was missing.
I remembered the Thursday when victoria bounded into the reading
room showcasing in her small hands a golden certificate from school. 
“Best reader,” it glistened. A smile came across my face as I looked into
the eyes of the petite 7-year old who just last year had been held back
in first grade because her reading was not up to par.
It was the same smile that had filled my face six months prior, when
victoria joined the reading program and I saw the other volunteers
instantly point at me. Our supervisor had agreed with them, knowing
I would use my patient disposition and friendly way with children to
motivate our new student. I had nodded vigorously, smiling, not only
because I was proud of the confidence they had in me, but because
nothing would make me happier than taking on the challenge of helping
victoria improve her reading.
After spending the first session responding to an unrelenting stream
of questions, I recognized that victoria’s talkative nature and impatience
for answers overshadowed her desire to sit down and read. I
treasured her energy and insatiable curiosity and fueled it with my own
enthusiasm. Yet, for every interest she presented, I took her to scan the
library shelves in search of a related book. I watched her eyes grow
with excitement as I tirelessly helped her press through the stories, a
journey in search of her answers. Some of the books I chose were difficult
for her, but we read through them together, challenging limits
and quenching the thirst for knowledge. In books, I told her time and
again, she would find all she wanted to know.
Taking her certificate in my hands, I couldn’t help but be proud that
part of this glittering piece of paper was likely my doing.
My thoughts were interrupted by victoria’s chant. “I got best reader!”
she exclaimed over and over jumping between feet as her arms waved
from side to side. Without hesitation, I followed. Holding her certificate
up for all to see, I matched my footing with hers as we hopped the
length of the room giggling.
Whether it is victory celebrations or talking in different voices,
whenever I am with these kids, I find myself being pulled into their
childhood world—a world of simplicity, of undying curiosity, and of
pure innocence. It is a world in which if everything is not perfect, it
definitely can be. And with a simple “prayer to god” or “kiss on the
boo-boo” it will be.
 Though I go in each week to be these kids’ teacher, I come out,
having been their student. They have introduced me to a side of me I
never realized existed.
As I enter college, it is not only my intelligence or my accumulated
knowledge, but also the kid in me who will bring success. This child
will jump to try every new activity with an enthusiasm that cannot
fade. She will ask questions of everything she sees, of everything she
hears and of everything she reads. She will dream big and for every
step she stumbles upon towards that dream, she will get right back up
and step again, this time, a little more carefully. And she will do all this,
approach every life hurdle or triumph with a smile- a big contagious
smile.﻿I have always been a science-math girl. I sighed and sulked
through classes on US History and French in eager anticipation of the
formulas and applications I would be learning later in the day. I believe
there are many factors which attribute to my success, two being my
fascination and persistence.
When I was seven I once asked what math was good for and why
I should learn it. The answer I received simply does not do math justice,
“One day when you’re in line at the grocery store the cashier will
give you too little change and you’ll be glad you learned this.” now
in calculus I see the application of all these once foreign symbols, formulas,
and letters. I am often amazed by the calculations I am able to
do using the cumulative information acquired from nearly 12 years of
education, such as how to maximize the volume of a box given a certain
surface area. Math is not just plug and chug as many view it but
it requires creativity and thinking out of the box to solve the problems
encountered in the real world. Beauty lies in its simplicity and in the
fact that proofs and observations are what brought the golden rectangle
from ancient greece, Pascal’s triangle, and the Pythagorean Theorem as
well as a host of other theorems, equations, and postulates. Math has
made the impossible possible and the once long and tedious, simple
and quick. The genius of it is amazing as well as the fact that any person
is capable of applying and discovering it. I draw graphs and try to
make shapes from functions for fun, count to 10 to calm down, and
save money at the store, too. For all of these reasons and many more, I
am fascinated by math.
I wasn’t always good at math, contrary to what students in my classes
might say. When I first showed interest in math in the 5th grade my
parents laughed; middle school was even worse. Incoming 6th graders
were given a test on the second day of school and depending on their
scores were placed into a high or low speed math class. I was put in
the slow speed math and missed a lot of class my first year, as a result
my grade drifted from a B to a C to a C-, then I got help. I knew I liked
math and I didn’t want to do bad in it so I bought books and hired
my older brother to help me. I eventually made it to a B+. Later, in the
summer after my junior year, I took a course that covered nearly a year
of Calculus. I was told that if I decided to take Calculus AB, I would be
bored, so I went for a challenge. My strongest subject began to take up
most of my time. I had to read review books, go online for help, and
stay in during nutrition and lunch for extra instruction. It was hard,
but my dedication paid off and I earned an A. This persistence and
drive also help me excel in math.﻿Every Sunday monday, my family's home plays host to
what my mom likes to call “mother-son bonding time.” This Sunday is
no different. My mom and I sit down with our regular Chai Latte and
Caramel Frappuchino, and absorb the aroma of the coffee beans and
the gentle rays of the winter sun.
“So Alex, what are we going to do for dad’s 50th birthday?” When
my mom asks a question about upcoming plans, she doesn’t expect an
answer; she already has something in mind. Many years ago, my mom
started a family tradition of making gifts personal: poems, songs, skits.
At first I didn’t understand why we were wasting so much time when we
could just buy a gift card from the local mall. But my outlook changed
when I turned twelve. For my birthday, my parents gave me a poster, a
product of their many hours on Photoshop. With long hair, sideburns,
and a slim suit, I had become the fifth member of the Beatles crossing
Abbey road. Every morning when I wake up, this poster opposite my
bed is the first thing I see, and I start off the day with a smile. Since 
then, I have needed little persuasion to start working on the next gift
project. Actually, I even look forward to these times, when my parents
find their inner children, and the trivial worries of life simply whisk
away. My dad, both figuratively and literally, ditches his office suit and
proper manners, and dons a red woman’s wig and high heels to practice
a scene. My mom stops scolding my sister and me, and joins us in our
ruckus, doing the jitterbug and blowing on a harmonica. These are the
moments in my family when there are no children or adults, just four
people who give in to their creative urges.
“How about throwing Dad a party, and making him a movie?” my
mom asks as I use my straw to fish for any remaining coffee at the bottom
of the cup. “Just think of a movie you like and we’ll parody it.”
A big fan of “the-life-is-like-a-box-of-chocolates” theory, I suggest my
favorite movie, Forrest gump. She smiles. “OK, but only if you play
Forrest.”
When we come home, my mom takes down a box, heavy with the
dust of age, scribbled with messy russian lettering. I peer over her
shoulder as she empties onto the living room floor the contents: my
dad’s life story in black and white. Within minutes, I am completely immersed
in the photographs I have never seen before. As I gape at a picture
of a bearded teenager laughing with his friends, I do a double take.
Is this the same clean-shaven man who helped me to prove the theorem
that all right angles are congruent and always tells me to tuck in my
shirt? I shake my head in disbelief as I thumb through some pictures of
my dad and his friends with guitars in the forest singing songs around a
camp fire. My mom explains that the Soviet government didn’t approve
of these songs, so the woods became their only refuge. I am now starting
to understand why my dad, limited in what he could sing or say
as a youth, pushes my sister and me to ask probing questions, survey
news from all sides of the political spectrum, and watch controversial
movies. Looking down at one of the pictures of my dad in the forest, it
just hits me: the movie should be called “Forest guy.”
 With each picture comes its own story, and collectively, they create
a collage of my dad’s past that I had never known. But even more surprises
await me as I watch documentaries about russian leaders in the
20th century. To truly parody Forrest gump, some “great” Communist
leaders must be part of Forest guy’s life, just as Kennedy and nixon
were part of Forrest gump’s. Coming up with bizarre ideas of how
my dad met the Communist leaders is the most entertaining part of
our moviemaking. My stomach throbs with laughter as I conceive the
impossible notion of my dad bullying gorbachev into destroying the
Berlin Wall.
Along with russian history, I also discover part of my family’s: while
discussing the horrors of Stalin’s reign with my mom, I am shocked
to hear that my father was born in exile, and one of his uncles died in
Stalin’s concentration camp for joking about Communists. It’s hard to
believe that someone can be killed for cracking a joke, when cracking
a safe will only get you a few years in jail. Luckily, when I am joking
about Lenin and Stalin in my film, my only worry is crowd response.
It is the day of the party, and as I look around at the apprehensive
crowd, my instincts yell, “run, Alex! run!” Soon, the lights dim, and
my anxiety grows. I am watching the viewers as intensely as they are
watching the screen. As each joke is met with uproarious laughter and
table slapping, my breaths become calmer and my fingers stop shaking.
Twenty-five minutes later, I hear the long awaited ovation. I gaze from
table to table at the sea of smiles, but one face catches my attention. It
is my dad’s, showing complete disbelief that something so grandiose
could be done about him and for him. All these weeks I had been so
focused on the guests’ reactions that I never thought about my dad’s.
Although he is trying hard to contain himself, I see a tear sneak from
the side of his eye. It is the first time I have seen my dad cry.
Yes, life is a box of chocolates. Some are delicious, some too bitter
for your taste. But the best are like the one I picked that day; they seem
like any other chocolate, but when you bite into them, they surprise
you with an unexpected flavor.﻿The cold mid-August San Fransisco bay fog was just beginning
to roll in over Piedmont as I snapped the cover shut on Jennings
Burch’s book “They Cage the Animals at night,” the most recent addition
to my “get ready for 7th grade summer reading extravaganza.” It is
a story about a young boy who lives in various orphanages and foster
homes with only his stuffed animal, Doggie, for companionship. My
cousin from Connecticut had told me that it was a fabulous book, but
little did I know how it would touch my life and the lives of others.
As I gazed across my room at the pile of stuffed animals I had been
collecting since I was young, an idea came to me. I would collect stuffed
animals for children like Jennings. First, I contacted local agencies that
support children suffering from abuse and neglect and told them about
my idea. They said that the stuffed animals would be very helpful in
therapy and would certainly lift children’s spirits.
I decided to call my project “Cuddle Buddies.” now I actually had
to come up with the “buddies”! I wrote articles for the local and school
newspapers, telling Jennings’ story and asking for donations of stuffed
animals. My phone rang off the hook; schools, families, local businesses
and toy manufacturers all wanted to help. Much to my delight this
project took the Bay Area by storm. By the second week my living room
looked like a zoo with animals tucked in every corner and on top of
each chair. Every time my mom and I made deliveries to the agencies,
the kids would be waiting for their Cuddle Buddies with their eyes
down, too shy to look but shaking with excitement.
Six years after its launch, Cuddle Buddies continues to expand.
Each year I solicit from more toy companies and communities. now
over 25,000 stuffed animals have been donated to agencies in the Bay
Area and Connecticut, emergency units, two orphanages in Africa
and one in germany. At the Saidia Children’s Home in Kenya, Simon,
a seven year old, whose parents died from AIDS, couldn’t sleep at
night. When the Cuddle Buddies were laid out for him to choose
from, Simon selected a grey koala bear and soon after was sleeping
through the night. My heart ached when I learned that a young girl
in Oakland had stopped cutting herself so she could get the big black 
dog that she wanted so badly. I never dreamed that Cuddle Buddies
would be used in these ways.
Knowing that I would be going on to college and that others my
age could do what I have done, I decided to expand Cuddle Buddies.
To spread the word beyond the Bay Area I designed a website, www.
cuddlebuddies.net, and contacted newspapers and Tv stations across
the nation. The response was overwhelming. I heard from kids, parents,
agencies and even The girls Scouts. I am now helping to establish
two dozen Cuddle Buddies chapters from Utah to north Carolina.
This has been a great experience. I have learned how to follow
through on an idea, how to champion a cause and how to deal with
setbacks. But most importantly, I have learned how easy it is to positively
impact a life and the joy that comes from it. I will go to college
with these lessons in mind and hope to continue my work with Cuddle
Buddies, even as I engage in a whole new set of exciting academic and
nonacademic pursuits. E v e r y   y e a r ,   m y   C h r i s t m a s   w i s h l i s t   w o u l d   r e a d ,    D e a r   S a n t a ,  
 a l l   I   w a n t   f o r   C h r i s t m a s   i s   a   b a b y   b r o t h e r .    A t   a g e   n i n e ,   I   k n e w   S a n t a   h a d  
 t o   b e   r e a l   b e c a u s e ,   o n e   d a y ,   m y   m o m   a n n o u n c e d   t h a t   s h e   w a s   p r e g n a n t .  
 A f t e r   t e n   y e a r s   o f   b e i n g   a n   o n l y   c h i l d ,   I   c o u l d   n o t   h a v e   a n t i c i p a t e d   h o w  
 m u c h   m y   l i f e   w o u l d   c h a n g e   b e c a u s e   o f   a   l i t t l e   b r o t h e r .   I   r e c e i v e d   t h e  
 h o n o r   o f   n a m i n g   h i m ,   a n d   I   c h o s e   J a s o n .   I n   r e t r o s p e c t ,   I   s h o u l d   h a v e  
 n a m e d   m y   b r o t h e r    I v a n   t h e   T e r r i b l e .   
 J a s o n   f o l l o w e d   m e   e v e r y w h e r e   l i k e   a n   i r r i t a t i n g   s h a d o w .   M y   g r i e v a n c e s  
 t o   m y   m o m   w e r e   c o u n t l e s s ,   e s p e c i a l l y   a f t e r   J a s o n   d r e w   a l l   o v e r  
 m y   b e d r o o m   w a l l s   a n d   m u r d e r e d   m y   p e t   f i s h ,   g o l d i e .   M y   m o m  s   t y p i c a l  
 r e s p o n s e   w a s ,    W e l l ,   i s n  t   t h i s   w h a t   y o u  v e   a l w a y s   w i s h e d   f o r ?   
 J a s o n  s   m i s c h i e f   r e a c h e d   a   n e w   h e i g h t   o n e   m o r n i n g   w h e n   I   b e c a m e  
 t h e   v i c t i m   o f   a   f i v e   y e a r   o l d   w i t h   s c i s s o r s .   I   s t a r e d   i n t o   t h e   b a t h r o o m  
 m i r r o r   a n d   d u n k e d   m y   h e a d   u n d e r   c o l d   w a t e r   t o   m a k e   s u r e   I   w a s   n o t  
 d r e a m i n g .   W h a t   I   s a w   e n r a g e d   m e !   I n   t h e   m i d d l e   o f   t h e   n i g h t ,   M i c h a e l  
 h a d   c u t   o f f   f i v e   i n c h e s   o f   m y   l o n g ,   b l a c k   h a i r   f r o m   o n e   s i d e   o f   m y  
 h e a d .   I   s t o o d   i n   h o r r o r ,   a n d   s t o r m e d   t o   t h e   k i t c h e n   w h e r e   I   f o u n d   t h e  
 r e s t   o f   m y   f a m i l y   c a l m l y   e a t i n g   b r e a k f a s t .   I   f l a s h e d   a   m e n a c i n g   s t a r e   a t  
 m y   b r o t h e r ,   w h o   s n i c k e r e d   a c r o s s   t h e   t a b l e .    Y o u  r e   g o i n g   t o   p a y   f o r  
 t h i s !    I   s c r e a m e d .   F u r i o u s   b e y o n d   w o r d s ,   I   c o u l d   n o t   e v e n   b e g i n   t o  
 d e s c r i b e   m y   r a g e .   I n s t e a d ,   I   r a n   b a c k   t o   t h e   b a t h r o o m   a n d   h u d d l e d   o n  
 t h e   f l o o r .  
  W h a t   a m   I   g o i n g   t o   d o ?    I   w a s   i r a t e   a n d   p a n i c k e d   a t   t h e   s a m e   t i m e .  
 A s   a   f r e s h m a n   i n   h i g h   s c h o o l ,   I   w a s   v e r y   s e n s i t i v e   a b o u t   m y   a p p e a r a n c e .  
 I   h a d   b e e n   h e s i t a n t   t o   c u t   m y   h a i r   p a s t   t h e    t i p s   t o   t a k e   a w a y   t h e  
 s p l i t - e n d s    t r i m ,   b e c a u s e   m y   h a i r   h a d   b e e n   t h e   s a m e   l e n g t h   f o r   s e v e n  
 y e a r s .   I   a g o n i z e d   o v e r   t h e   s i t u a t i o n   a n d   c o n c o c t e d   m y   s w i f t   c o u n t e r - a t t a c k .  
 I n s t e a d   o f   c h o p p i n g   o f f   h i s   h a i r ,   I   f o u n d   i n s p i r a t i o n   t o   a p p e a s e   m y  
 a n g e r   i n   t h e   p a g e s   o f   T e e n   m a g a z i n e   a n d   c o n s i d e r e d   t r e n d y   h a i r s t y l e s .  
 M y   b r o t h e r   w a s   s t u n n e d   b e c a u s e   I   d i d   n o t   r e t a l i a t e .   v i c t o r y   w a s   m i n e .  
 B e c a u s e   o f   e x p e r i e n c e s   s u c h   a s   t h i s ,   I   h a v e   l e a r n e d   t o   a d a p t ,   t o   k e e p  
 m y   f o c u s ,   a n d   t o   s o l v e   p r o b l e m s   w i t h   l i t t l e   o r   n o   r e s o u r c e s .   I   a p p r o a c h  
 t o u g h   s i t u a t i o n s   w i t h   o b j e c t i v i t y   a n d   d e t e r m i n a t i o n .   L i k e   m a n y   o t h e r  
 e x p e r i e n c e s   w i t h   m y   b r o t h e r   a n d   a t   s c h o o l ,   I   h a v e   d e a l t   w i t h   d i f f i c u l t    
 s i t u a t i o n s   a n d   t u r n e d   t h e m   i n t o   p o s i t i v e   o p p o r t u n i t i e s   f o r   c h a n g e .   I   a m  
 f l e x i b l e   w i t h   t h e   c i r c u m s t a n c e s   g i v e n   t o   m e ,   a n d   I   s t r i v e   f o r   t h e   b e s t  
 o u t c o m e .   D e s p i t e   t h e   c r a z i n e s s   S a n t a  s   g i f t   b r i n g s ,   J a s o n  s   c o n t i n u o u s  
 s u r p r i s e s   p r o v i d e   l a u g h t e r   t o   m y   l i f e .   A s   f o r   m y   h a i r ,   I   d i d   c u t   o f f   t h e  
 f i v e   i n c h e s   f r o m   t h e   o t h e r   s i d e ,   a n d   I   a c t u a l l y   c h e r i s h e d   t h e   n e w   l o o k  
 b e t t e r .   T h a n k s ,   S a n t a .In our house, English is not English. Not in the phonetic sense, like short a is for apple, but rather in the pronunciation  in our house, snake is snack. Words do not roll off our tongues correctly  yet I, who was pulled out of class to meet with language specialists, and my mother from Malaysia, who pronounces film as flim, understand each other perfectly.

In our house, there is no difference between cast and cash, which was why at a church retreat, people made fun of me for cashing out demons. I did not realize the glaring difference between the two Englishes until my teacher corrected my pronunciations of hammock, ladle, and siphon. Classmates laughed because I pronounce accept as except, success as sussess. I was in the Creative Writing conservatory, and yet words failed me when I needed them most.

Suddenly, understanding flower is flour wasnt enough. I rejected the English that had never seemed broken before, a language that had raised me and taught me everything I knew. Everybody elses parents spoke with accents smarting of Ph.D.s and university teaching positions. So why couldnt mine?

My mother spread her sunbaked hands and said, This is where I came from, spinning a tale with the English she had taught herself.

When my mother moved from her village to a town in Malaysia, she had to learn a brand new language in middle school: English. In a time when humiliation was encouraged, my mother was defenseless against the cruel words spewing from the teacher, who criticized her paper in front of the class. When she began to cry, the class president stood up and said, Thats enough.

Be like that class president, my mother said with tears in her eyes. The class president took her under her wing and patiently mended my mothers strands of language. She stood up for the weak and used her words to fight back.

We were both crying now. My mother asked me to teach her proper English so old white ladies at Target wouldnt laugh at her pronunciation. It has not been easy. There is a measure of guilt when I sew her letters together. Long vowels, double consonants  I am still learning myself. Sometimes I let the brokenness slide to spare her pride but perhaps I have hurt her more to spare mine.

As my mothers vocabulary began to grow, I mended my own English. Through performing poetry in front of 3000 at my schools Season Finale event, interviewing people from all walks of life, and writing stories for the stage, I stand against ignorance and become a voice for the homeless, the refugees, the ignored. With my words I fight against jeers pelted at an old Asian street performer on a New York subway. My mothers eyes are reflected in underprivileged ESL children who have so many stories to tell but do not know how. I fill them with words as they take needle and thread to make a tapestry.

In our house, there is beauty in the way we speak to each other. In our house, language is not broken but rather bursting with emotion. We have built a house out of words. There are friendly snakes in the cupboard and snacks in the tank. It is a crooked house. It is a little messy. But this is where we have made our home.﻿This summer, I went to the governor’s Honors Program, also
known as gHP, a six-week intensive college-like experience where the
best and brightest students in georgia gather to learn and grow as individuals.
It was the best thing that has ever happened to me. That
is something of a hackneyed phrase; people cheapen the extremes of
language by constantly using superlatives for everyday occurrences,
making it harder and harder to actually describe the few subtle and
transcendent moments of life. In Madame Bovary, Flaubert claims that 
language is but a cracked kettle on which we play music for the bears to
dance, while we dream of making the stars weep. The experiences we
have never fit within the too-close confines of language; but I will try
anyway. The classes that I attended were nothing like the classes that I
would take normally. nowhere else would the teachers encourage sixteen
and seventeen year-olds to look for sexual imagery in Shakespeare,
and then find even more than they did, without the exercise being
sordid instead of literary. I attended classes named anything from Dirty
Words: Clean Thoughts (a class on Profanity; the only course in which
the use of profane or vulgar language was prohibited) to Teenage Female
Angst: Beyond Holden Caulfield to Buffy the Vampire Slayer. All of them
opened my mind to a brand-new way of looking at the world, and processing
information. Thanks to the varying education that I received, I
know that valuable information about life is not only in the “classics,”
but even appears in seemingly mindless and trashy zombie films.
While I learned a lot in the classrooms of gHP, I feel that most of
my growth occurred outside of the classroom. I met the sort of people
who will change the world, who will go forth into the world and, without
making a big name, will do the things that make the world a better
place. My best friends there were people that I would never have met;
people I would never have known existed; people that I can now not
imagine life without. One was a math major, an excellent athlete in
every sport, and an accomplished singer; the running joke was that the
only thing that he was bad at was failing. The other was a phenomenal
writer, always ready to play an endearing trick on somebody, and the
former’s girl-friend. Both of them were fairly conservative Christians,
and yet totally accepting of me for whom I was, despite any of my
clashes with their beliefs. I did not limit myself though, and made it almost
a mission to find and talk to as many of the people there, because
I was sure that each and every one of them would have an interesting
perspective on things. Once I was walking back from playing Frisbee,
and was stopped to discuss what the ethical framework for life ought
to be; just for fun. The experience that I had there has undeniably
changed me forever.﻿"Heritage" is the first word in my family dictionary, a noun
and adverb, for who we are and how we live. My parents taught me that
my heritage defines my identity. Through honorific speech towards my
elders and adherence to traditional values, I accepted Korean customs
as part of the duality that defines my life in America.
Yet, a turbulent disunity stormed under that surface of peaceful coexistence.
Though I outwardly represented the model Korean-American
son, I loathed fitting this stereotypical mold. My shell was so well-constructed,
however, that others mistook me for a successful immigrant. I
felt as if I were ripped from the very fabric of my American birthplace,
and plunged into a vacuum between my ancestral home and the world
I lived in. I felt that my heritage was a short anchor against the relentlessly
rising tide: I had to break free—or go under.
While struggling with this chain, however, I came to appreciate what
my heritage offered. As a martial arts instructor, I supported students in
building discipline and character. As a bilingual tutor, I helped immigrant
children adapt to life in America. Soon, I realized that my heritage
was an instrument for harmonizing personal development with service
to others.
When I was selected to serve in the HOBY World Leadership
Congress, my family’s financial circumstances did not cover the $1,350
required fee. By infusing my American entrepreneurial energy with
Asian medicine, I covered the cost by selling herbal products at my
martial arts studio. Though the novelty of my venture brought me to the
verge of bankruptcy, I persisted. By researching products, competitors
and clientele, I streamlined my inventory to best serve my customers.
Eventually, I created a business aimed at offering others a healthy
lifestyle. Sweaty students gulped green tea and chocolate-flavored
snacks, dropping dollars for the cause that lay within my cardboard
cashbox. Supported by outside donations, I became greater L.A.’s ambassador
in Washington D.C. Infused with new inspiration, I returned
with a project grant to spread the martial arts lifestyle of discipline,
confidence, and respect.
As my heritage anchored itself to the bedrock of my battles, I integrated
Korean tradition with my American identity. Fusing service
with civic duty, I entered the L.A. County Sheriff’s Explorer Academy.
Through the grueling training, I learned to work as part of a team.
Appointed as Drill Instructor a year later, I took command of training
the older recruits. Through a relationship of mutual respect, I prepared
my platoon to dutifully serve the community. Leading this racially
mixed group, I empathized beyond the duality of my own identity. I
soon discovered that my heritage must transcend my personal struggles
to truly embrace diversity.
Heritage is not a mere ethnic label—it is the honor and humanity
that I am inspired to uphold. Today, I am grateful to my parents for
endowing me with a spirit of dedication and determination. They bestowed
a philosophy that speaks through my actions. This inheritance
forms the base of my integrity as an individual, and defines my dedication
to strengthening the society that I live in.﻿The greatest joy of music is to share it with others. Unfortunately,
the pleasure of performing is often forgotten when players become
more concerned with the technicalities and notes. I also once thought
that I knew all the important keys to successful piano playing: practice,
technique, dedication, and a love for what I do. Focused on the details,
I lost sight of my audience.
During my sophomore year, my friend invited me to join “Music
from the Heart,” a group that showcased its musical talents to senior
citizens. Although I accepted the invitation to support her, I began to
regret my choice as the first performance approached. not knowing
how the seniors would respond to my performance, especially when
I made a mistake, performing before the seniors became a terrifying
thought.
Although my first performance went smoothly, it was hard to know
whether the seniors enjoyed the pieces or the performance. While the
group performed, the seniors would talk to each other, pausing to clap 
at the end of each piece. Trying to impress the audience, I eventually
grew accustomed to preparing a showy piece as the monthly performance
approached.
So used to this monthly routine, I doubted that this performance
would be different from the previous ones when I was ready to perform
my favorite piece one summer day. While waiting for my turn, I glanced
around the room, noting with some uneasiness the growing number of
seniors gathered around the piano. Amidst the crowd of chattering seniors,
one woman’s rapt attention to the performance caught my interest.
She greeted each performer with a wide toothy smile and made a
small comment about the composition. Uncertain of her expectations,
I watched for her reaction when I rose to introduce my piece, “Clair de
Lune” by Claude Debussy.
“Ooh, I love that song,” was all she said in response.
A smile crossed my face when I discovered that she shared my enthusiasm
for the composition. To demonstrate to her how much I enjoyed
the song, I played my best to convey what made this moonlight
song so special to me. My minor concerns on technicalities slowly dissipated
as the song progressed. All that mattered then was playing the
song I loved as well as I could. For the first time, I felt contented with
my performance, undisturbed by mistakes.
The performance was far from perfect. However, none of the seniors
commented that the rhythm was too slow or the notes were wrong
like the audition judges would normally do. Although they still chattered
softly during the performance, they all smiled and clapped. A
few of them would say that the song was lovely. They appreciated my
efforts to entertain them and eagerly asked the group to return soon.
Just the delighted smile on the woman’s face made the performance
worthwhile.
It was the seniors’ appreciation for what I did that brought them
back to the piano each month, and my love for what I did that drew
me to it. The monthly performance was not just a musical showcase; it
was my chance to give back to the community and to help enrich the
seniors’ life. The true joy in my life is not just sharing music, but devoting
myself to community services as a volunteer.﻿Since I have always been interested in science and technology,
I subscribed to many research magazines, including Popular Science
and Scientific American. However, until 10th grade, I never had the opportunity
to contribute to medical research—something that I had always
wanted to do. Then, one day I read an article titled “Print Me a
Pancreas, Please” in Popular Science, which described novel tissue engineering
research involving modification of off-the-shelf inkjet printers
to print out living cells in a “bioink” solution. Having read much about
tissue engineering, I realized this “organ printing” approach could potentially
address problems of traditional tissue engineering methods,
such as the need to precisely place specific cell types in 3D scaffolds.
I was so excited that I came up with a few ideas of my own about advancing
the printer capabilities. I was impelled to contact the researchers
at the Medical University of South Carolina (MUSC) and Clemson
University (CU).
I corresponded with the professor at MUSC and visited his lab
multiple times, but realized that the actual printers were kept at CU.
Therefore, I contacted the researchers at CU, who did not reply to
about 50 of my e-mails. not the one to give up easily, I called the
Principal Investigator (PI) and expressed my eagerness to contribute
to the research. After seeing my resumé and computer-aided designs
(“roadmap to Organ Printing”), he invited me to meet him at his lab on
October 18th, which conflicted with my school’s Homecoming dance.
To my friends’ bewilderment I made the “unpopular” decision to miss
the dance. They could not understand why I preferred driving 26 hours
to meet a researcher and miss all the fun at the once-a-year dance. To
me, this was clearly the right choice. I was trading a great school experience
to literally get my hands into cutting-edge medical research.
The PI was so impressed with my original CAD designs (“roadmap
to Organ Printing”) and my resume that he invited me to research at his
lab. Over Christmas and other school breaks, I learned many laboratory
techniques, conducted novel research, and independently succeeded
in “printing” the first functional 3D branching tube of smooth muscle
cells (a rudimentary blood vessel). This research helped me win many 
science competitions and honors, including 2nd Place in Medicine
and Health at the Intel International Science and Engineering Fair and
become the Top Florida Presenter at the national Junior Science and
Humanities Symposium. My computer-aided designs were published
in Biomaterials Forum and the Journal of Thoracic and Cardiovascular
Surgery.
This remarkable experience inspired me to perform many additional
research projects and I consider it a turning point in my life. It has
increased my passion for research and my determination to be a physician
and work on devices or pharmaceuticals that improve people’s
quality of life. I have also become more confident in my research efforts
and am able to contact any researcher to pursue a position in
their laboratory. I have realized that there are many opportunities for
students like myself to contribute to labs and brainstorm solutions for
current problems.﻿I believe in the power of people. This drives my action and ambitions,
and defines me in a world of cynicism and doubt. I have seen
the power of people and their ability to come together in times of need
and joy and sorrow. I know that ultimately, humans strive for belonging
and community; thus, while loneliness and anger may always be
in existence, so will be togetherness and bliss. My strong faith in humanity
stems from my witnessing of the best in human qualities while
doing the MS150 and during Hurricane Ike, and pushes me to pursue
a career in helping others. Both of these events have allowed me to see
humanity at its best, performing selfless acts of benevolence.
For the past four years, I have participated in the BPMS150 bike
tour from Houston to Austin. This 175 mile ride raises funds for the
national MS Society, which sponsors medical research for multiple sclerosis
and aids the families of its victims. I can say from experience, the
ride is grueling; enormous hills, headwinds, fatigue, and body aches
are prevalent throughout. Yet every year, over thirteen thousand riders
decide to put their minds and bodies through two days of torture so
that they can help those who live with it every day. I have raised, over
four years, more than eight thousand dollars to benefit the MS Society,
and have never regretted any of the painful training or the ride itself.
The view at the starting line is one of the most empowering I have ever 
witnessed: thousands of people, all of them with their hands on their
handle bars, one foot poised on a pedal. All are ready to experience
exhaustion for the benefit of others, like my father. He was diagnosed
with MS when I was four, and is a constant motivator for me. I witnessed
him become blind in one eye, and struggle with a body that refuses
to function normally. I participate in this ride every year for him,
as do thirteen thousand others. The power of people will ultimately
help my father to receive better medical treatment, and maybe even
one day, be cured.
While writing this essay, I was also able to observe and be a part of
amazing human efforts. Hurricane Ike devastated Southeastern Texas,
particularly the Houston and galveston areas. Much of my extended
family lives in galveston, and so was forced to evacuate. Without hesitation,
my parents opened up our home to aunts, uncles, grandparents,
cousins, and pets. This is the environment in which I have always
lived; our home is anyone’s shelter, our food is anyone’s nourishment.
Together, our entire family weathered the storm, and comforted one
another. My aunt’s home received electrical power prior to my home,
and so she eagerly welcomed us to stay with her. Large scale displays
of altruism could be seen in the hundreds of University of Houston
students handing out food and water to those affected by the hurricane.
During times of need, people band together for safety and solace.
Community is instinctual; dismiss the notions of survival of the fittest.
People truly desire closeness with one another.
In the future, I hope to pursue a career in public health. I love
studying science and math, and I would like to use this passion to
benefit large numbers of people. Many go without basic medical treatment,
and this causes a huge discrepancy in quality of life and health in
the population. Even if this problem can never completely be solved,
I want to help remedy this as much as possible. With small deeds and
cooperative effort, humans can accomplish immense good. I know this
because I believe in people, and I have seen them at their finest.﻿“Hello! What’s Your Name?” “Pen-Yuan Hsing.” I see The
Expression, then hear The response: “What?” Starting the first grade in
the US without knowing a single word of English, going back to Taiwan
three years later incapable of recognizing a single Chinese character is
not exactly an ideal circumstance for blending in. For many years, I 
was always the quiet one sitting in the corner, the one who few people
talked to, the one out of the loop. I was the “local alien.”
I opt to join the Earth Science Club during my first year in Lishan
High School, as I always had an interest in astronomy, which happened
to be the focus of that year’s club activities. I didn’t know the weekly
gathering time of our club was also an elective Earth Science course
that students from other high schools could attend. I certainly did not
realize what a big impact this arrangement would have on me.
near the end of the first semester, I was approached by a girl from a
neighboring school who attended this earth science course. She asked
if I wanted to join her on an environmental survey of Taiwan’s Keelung
coast conducted by an organization called Taipei Wetnet. For a moment
I hesitated, I literally had no experience in responding to invitations.
What suddenly came out of my mouth surprised me, “Sure, what
time?”
For the next three years I spent in Taipei Wetnet, I gained not only
a close friend, knowledge about the problems our environment faced,
but perhaps most importantly found a group of people who shared the
same convictions, who are passionate about the same thing, the plight
of our precious planet. A year after being introduced to this organization,
I was its coordinator and presented my first academic paper at an
environmental education conference. I learned that I don’t always have
to be the quiet one in the corner, that I do and can have things to share
with everyone else. I don’t have to fear.
I often think about how I managed to say yes on that fateful day.
Was it just because of a pretty face? Or maybe there has always been a
special part of me that wanted to get out, and she was instrumental in
“flipping the switch.” This eye-opening experience and what I learned
from it is what I desperately want to share with the world.
Perhaps, somewhere out there is another quiet person in the corner
just waiting to be found. A switch waiting to be flipped. You just have
to find it, flip it, and make the world a brighter, warmer place.﻿When my grandmother came to visit five years ago, she
brought me a 3,000 piece jigsaw puzzle. To most, this would not sound
very exciting—it would be almost as bad as a shirt saying “My grandparents
went to India, and all they bought me was this stupid shirt.”
My reaction to the puzzle was different. I cut open the cardboard box
as soon as I could, and poured the pieces out onto my puzzleboard.
I worked patiently on the puzzle for hours at a time, my excitement
building as more and more of the picture was revealed. I cut down my
sleep time until the image of a picturesque forest was complete. The
puzzle overshadowed all else in my life, if only for that short period of
time.
Working on puzzles has helped me gain focus, determination, and
patience. I have learned to apply these qualities to every task I face,
dealing with the outside world in the same fashion as I would a puzzle.
My love for science stems largely from this; science requires the same
logical and levelheaded approach that a puzzle does, and as evidenced 
by the many puzzles decorating my house, this is an approach which
suits my skills and temperament. This intellectual stimulation, coupled
with a desire to discover more about life’s mysteries, compels me to
pursue a career in scientific research.
This summer, I worked in a cardiology laboratory at UCLA, looking
at proteins associated with HDL to understand how atherosclerosis
can be averted. After some experiments provided questionable results,
I was given the task of confirming that the viruses we were working
with had been packaged and identified correctly. I spent weeks running
DnA gels, looking for specific genes in each virus, but my results were
inconsistent. I was frustrated, but instead of giving up on my assignment,
I was even more determined to find an explanation. I considered
every aspect of the experiment, working backwards until I reached the
source—the primers I had used to amplify the DnA were nonspecific
and ineffective, and thus useless in distinguishing the three genes of
interest to us. Knowing this, I was able to alter my experiment accordingly,
looking at protein content instead of DnA sequences. I finally
showed that two of the three viruses were correct; the third, however,
needed to be repackaged. My work was crucial to the undergraduate
student I was working with, because he was able to redesign his experiment
to account for this third virus.
Working in a lab was an exhilarating experience for me. Even though
I gave up lying on the beach to instead play with viruses and chemicals,
the compulsion to understand these proteins inspired and motivated
me. I am tremendously proud of the piece I contributed to the atherosclerosis
puzzle: a small piece, but integral nonetheless. The sense of
accomplishment I felt because of my work in the UCLA lab was much
the same as that which I felt upon completing the 3,000 piece puzzle
my grandmother gave me. This feeling is one I hope to experience
throughout my life, because the atherosclerosis puzzle is most assuredly
not the last such puzzle I will work on.﻿This past summer I had the opportunity to participate in a highly
rigorous academic program at MIT called MITES, Minority Introduction
to Engineering and Science. For six and a half weeks I lived with 68
other rising seniors and college undergrads. Though we were all warned
about how hard the program would be, we were all at the top of our
classes and refused to believe it- after all, who did they think we were?
The first day we sat together in a small auditorium, unaware of each
other and of what lay ahead. We were told that our confidence would
be shattered, our minds blown away, and our lives changed forever.
Still somewhat unmoved, we were not afraid.
By the second week of MITES valedictorians, nerds, bookworms,
and techies alike were leaning on each other’s shoulders at two in the
morning crying over problem sets they had imagined only in nightmares.
It is a well known fact that hard times bring friends closer together,
but I would have never expected for these strangers to become
my best friends, my support system, or even my family. The 16 hours
days I was accustomed to at home did not last long. I was getting an
average of four hours of sleep per night, finishing a book per week,
zooming through subjects once foreign to me, and constructing a semiautonomous
robot from drill motors all at the same time.
We were each enrolled in 5 classes, my schedule consisted of
Introductory Physics, Engineering Design, Chemistry, first year
Calculus, and Humanities. In the month and a half we completed a
semester of Physics and Chemistry each, a full year of Calculus, the material
equivalent to a semester in AP literature, and introductory level
engineering. The work was so intense that when I entered school in the 
fall I enrolled in second year Calculus, and maintained the only A in AP
Physics, having no physics experience prior to MITES.
Since this program I have not been satisfied with the regular coursework
given at my school. I am constantly on the lookout for new programs
to enroll in and other teams, clubs, and groups to join. This
academic school year marks the peak of my involvement in educational
opportunities. I have somehow managed to find time for the
Speech and Debate team, ACE mentoring team, swim team, Science
Bowl team, California Honors Society and Scholarship Federation, Play
Production, Jewish Student Union, gEAr-UP Mentoring Program, and
folklorico dancing.
MITES was the most challenging experience of my life. The program
is the single most pivotal point in my academic endeavors to date.
The assistants we had had all gone through the program and agreed
that even in college at Harvard, MIT, Caltech, and Princeton, nothing
came close. The motivation and encouragement I gained from MITES
has fueled my academic pursuits and pushed me to raise the bar.﻿I trod the mud in the misty spring rain. It was Qing Ming, the
holiday in China when we honored our deceased ancestors. On the
ground of the cemetery, drenched flowers lay in my grandfather’s remembrance.
That morning—a month before my sixth birthday—I
clung tightly to my mother’s sleeves and finally learned why he passed
away.
My grandfather had been a victim of cancer. Because the diagnosis
came too late, all treatment was futile. As my mother whispered this to
me with grief in her eyes, I stomped angrily in the mud. I blamed the
doctors who couldn’t find the tumor in time to save him. That rainy
morning launched my dream to help cure cancer—a common wish,
but one that fueled a life-changing pursuit. Knowing that the best pro-
tection against cancer was to detect it as early as possible, I examined
the widely used methods of detection. I read about mammography and
was astounded to learn that it failed to detect a large percentage of
cases. As I wondered how to make detection more accurate, I heard
about a research internship program at ____ Cancer Center. I jumped
at the opportunity.
There, my mentors encouraged me to investigate cancer’s genetic
causes. I became intrigued by a gene suspected to play a role in the
onset of breast cancer. We examined a process of gene-silencing—
known as methylation—that changed DnA structure while keeping
the sequence itself intact. Through a series of assays, we pinpointed
the methylated sites in the gene sequence that distinguished cancerous
breast cells from healthy cells. These were markers of disease!
The thrill came from knowing the vast clinical applications of the
discovery. Finding such markers is a step toward the individualization
of cancer treatment. genomics-based diagnostics would detect cancer
earlier than traditional procedures. Also, since methylation does not
change the DnA sequence, it is reversible. Therapeutics could target
these sites and minimize harm to healthy tissue.
Personalized cancer diagnostics promise a new dawn, but they are
not yet reality. Many more genes need to be studied before we can fully
comprehend the roots of the disease. Awed by the complexity of cancer,
I realized that my dream was much more intricate than I imagined.
However, my youthful passion in medicine did not dwindle. Instead,
it strengthened and matured into a strategy. As my vague goals shaped
into specific inquiries, my curiosity became insatiable. The joy of uncovering
the unknown affirmed my love for science. My generation will
keep pushing the boundaries of knowledge, and nothing would give
me more fulfillment than continuing to fight in the war on cancer.
I recall that rainy Qing Ming morning when I gazed at my grandfather’s
gravesite. I wish I could tell him about the adventure he inspired.
This war will be arduous, but every little “eureka!” along the way is a
portent of victory.
﻿“Rosencrantz and Guildenstern are dead” IS an astounding,
intellectually challenging, and humorous concoction. Stoppard
cleverly captures the characters of Hamlet, written by Shakespeare, but
creates somewhat of a comic tragedy. Clearly an oxymoron, but profoundly
effective. The play focuses on the story of Hamlet, but from the
viewpoint of rosencrantz and guildenstern, and it also takes the theories
proposed in Hamlet and presents them in a comic, rather than sullen,
manner. One of the most humorous scenes is when rosencrantz,
or guildenstern, since the distinction is never truly made between
the two, is laying on a table and thinking to himself what it is like
to be “dead in a box.” This scene proves to be hilarious, despite its
deep meaning, and parallels the infamous “To be, or not to be” speech
in Hamlet. Life’s unanswerable questions are constantly being asked
throughout the play, but by inserting these dubious inquiries within
a comedy, Stoppard is able to captivate and preserve his audience’s attention.
In fact, the humor provides the wiring, which connects the 
messages of the play to our own chaotic existences. This brilliant literary
work captures the essence of a tragedy within a comedy, something
only few authors can accomplish. It is able to provide profound, theoretical
ideas that have long been questioned into a comic perspective,
and yet keep its integrity.﻿July 22 last year was meant to be a typical Sunday. Just like every
Sunday, my mother and I were getting ready to visit my older brother at
his Waikiki apartment, where we would talk for a little while. But July
22nd was different. That chilly morning, we got a phone call from his
roommate telling us my brother was going to the emergency room. As
we drove to Queen’s Hospital, I didn’t know what to think. Although
I tried to assure myself that nothing serious could have happened to
him, anxiety clouded my mind.
My brother, Tyson, emigrated from vietnam with my mom and my
other older brother to the United States in 1990, with dreams of a new
life and fresh opportunities. He enrolled in high school with virtually
no knowledge of the English language. Even though he had to simultaneously
manage a part-time job at McDonald’s, he excelled in academics
and was the top of his class in calculus.
At 34 years old, he was the epitome of health: he ran marathons every
year, had a healthy diet, and never smoked or drank alcohol. When
I got to the Er and saw him lying in the hospital bed, he looked like
the Tyson that I always knew. nothing seemed wrong. He just seemed
tired, and he didn’t have the energy to speak.
However, coming back from an MrI scan, my brother seemed different.
His eyes were unfocused and dazed, as if he didn’t see the room
in front of him. Uneasiness and fear rushed down my spine. I shouted
for help, just as my brother’s body started to spasm. I felt a profound
emotion surging up in me, one that I had never experienced before--a
wrenching sense of trepidation, laced with sickening adrenaline. The
seizure took control of his body, and he began to foam at the mouth.
His body seized up, but I was frozen still. I didn’t know what to do. I
felt useless and terrified.
Tyson told me, when I was just a kid, not to work while I was in
high school. I was young, though, and still wanted to work because I
wanted to make money, like him. During his high school years, he took
on a part-time job after school, even though it meant he had to come
home late every night. Often, he would stay up through the early hours
of the morning, determined to complete his schoolwork. He held down 
the job, despite its exhausting physical toll, because he had to: he had
to assist with the bills and support my mom, so that she could take
English classes at the local community college. Tyson said that I didn’t
have to work, because he would always be there to support me.
While my brother was in the hospital, my mother and I went there
every day from before dawn to late at night, when the streets were empty.
Tyson had developed severe brain inflammation as a result of the
seizure. He had dozens of tests done: X-rays, MrIs, blood tests, spinal
taps, a bronchoscopy, and even a brain biopsy. A labyrinth of Iv tubes,
wires, and cables were hooked up to his body, monitoring his life signs
and feeding dozens of chemicals and solutions into his bloodstream.
The doctors kept him constantly sedated. His brain inflammation was
life-threatening, and he caught a case of severe pneumonia. His doctors
had to place him on life support. In three weeks, my brother had
gone from being in the best shape of his life, from being a veritable
Superman, to laying on his deathbed.
When I was a kid, I was a crybaby. I cried when I didn’t get the toy
I wanted. I cried when I didn’t get the food I wanted. However, at some
point during my childhood, around the age of six, I stopped crying.
no matter how much I was teased or pushed around, I never cried. no
matter how much I was mocked about my clothes, or my ethnicity, I
didn’t cry.
August 11 last year was the first time since childhood that I cried.
It was the day that my brother passed away. And it was the first time
that I ever saw my mom cry. It was a traumatizing experience, and for
a while I was depressed that such a tragedy could occur so arbitrarily
to someone like my brother: someone who was strong, someone who
was healthy, someone who lived by a strong moral code and never sacrificed
his values for material rewards. But after a while, I realized that
the circumstances of his death were not a refutation of his beliefs, but
instead, a reminder of their importance. Even though we cannot control
the twists and turns of life, we must deal with them as best we can.
My brother, even though he didn’t know English, enrolled in school
and ultimately excelled. And at the same time, to help our mother go to
school on the side, he took on a part-time job. Certainly he must have
wished that he hadn’t faced those disadvantages, but he didn’t complain.
rather, he faced the realities of his situation head-on, and succeeded.
Tyson’s death was a tragic reflection of the cold, random chance 
of nature, but it was in no way any verdict on his philosophy: instead,
I realized, it served as a clear reminder to me that the worst can happen
to even the best, and that the strength of an individual lies in his
ability to maintain his values when faced with such difficult situations.
Today, I still hold onto the lessons that my brother taught me through
his actions: to put the needs of your family first, to always persevere
in the face of adversity, and to never compromise your ideals for petty
desires. To lose heart in these values because of his death, then, would
be a harsh disservice to Tyson’s legacy. E v e r y   t i m e   I   d r i v e   i n t o   a   c l i e n t  s   d r i v e w a y ,   t h e r e  s   a l w a y s   t h a t   m o m e n t .  
 T h a t   m o m e n t   w h e r e   I   m u s t   s h e d   a n y   d o u b t   I   h a v e   a n d   b e c o m e  
 a d a m a n t .   T h a t   m o m e n t   w h e r e   I   r e a l i z e   t h a t ,   p e o p l e   a r e   d e p e n d i n g   o n  
 m e ,   a n d   I   m u s t   d o   m y   b e s t   t o   h e l p   t h e m .   A n d   t h a t   m o m e n t   w h e r e ,   w i t h  
 t o o l   b a g   t o   m y   s i d e ,   I   m u s t   p r e p a r e   t o   f a c e   w h a t e v e r   p r o b l e m   i s   w a i t i n g  
 f o r   m e   i n   t h e i r   h o u s e .   T h i s   t i m e   i s   n o   d i f f e r e n t .   A s   w i t h   t h e   h u n d r e d s  
 o f   o t h e r   p r o b l e m s   I  v e   f a c e d ,   I   m u s t   r e m e m b e r   t h a t   e v e r y   p r o b l e m   h a s  
 a   s o l u t i o n ,   a n d   I   c a n   f i n d   i t .  
 W h e n   I   a m   g r e e t e d   b y   a   m i d d l e - a g e d   w o m a n   a s   I   a p p r o a c h   t h e  
 h o u s e ,   m y   r e m a i n i n g   d o u b t s   e v a p o r a t e .   O n c e   I   s e e   t h e   i n d i v i d u a l   I   a m  
 a b o u t   t o   h e l p   I   b e c o m e   s a t u r a t e d   w i t h   r e s o l v e .   H o w e v e r ,   a l l   s h e   w i l l   s e e  
 f r o m   m e   i s   a   s m i l e   a s   I   a s k   h e r   h o w   s h e   i s .   I   t h e n   a s k   h e r   w h a t   t h e   p r o b l e m  
 i s ,   a n d   s h e   l e a d s   m e   t o   h e r   c o m p u t e r .   S h e   t e l l s   m e   t h a t   h e r   c o m p u t e r  
 i s   s h u t t i n g   d o w n   r a n d o m l y ,   a n d   t h e n   l e a v e s   a s   I   b e g i n   t o   w o r k .  
 W i t h   a   s i m p l e   p u s h   o f   t h e   p o w e r   b u t t o n ,   t h e   p r o c e s s   b e g i n s .  
 U n f o r t u n a t e l y ,   f o r   t h i s   c a s e ,   j u s t   a s   q u i c k l y   a s   i t   s t a r t s  t h e   c o m p u t e r    
 s h u t s   o f f .   n e v e r   d i s c o u r a g e d ,   I   d i s m a n t l e   i t   t o   l o o k   f o r   o b v i o u s   s i g n s  
 o f   d a m a g e .   H o w e v e r ,   e v e r y t h i n g   h e r e   a p p e a r s   n o r m a l :   w i r e s   s e c u r e ,  
 c i r c u i t s   s h i n i n g .  
 B u t   t h e r e  s   a n o t h e r   t e s t   t h a t   m a y   w o r k .   E y e s   f o c u s e d   o n   t h e   i n s i d e  
 o f   t h e   c o m p u t e r ,   I   t u r n   i t   o n   a g a i n .   I   h a v e   o n l y   a   m o m e n t   b e f o r e   i t   s u c c u m b s  
 t o   i t s   a i l m e n t   a g a i n .   A d d i t i o n a l l y ,   e a c h   t i m e   i t   s t a r t s   c o u l d   b e  
 d a m a g i n g ,   s o   I   h a v e   t o   m a k e   t h i s   c o u n t .   W h e n   t h e   s o u n d   o f   e l e c t r i c i t y  
 s u r g i n g   t h r o u g h   t h e   c o m p u t e r   b e g i n s ,   I   i m m e d i a t e l y   n o t i c e   a   v i t a l   f a n  
 f a i l i n g   t o   t w i r l :   t h e   c o m p u t e r   i s   s i m p l y   o v e r h e a t i n g .   W i t h   a   q u i c k   p u l l  
 o f   t h e   p o w e r   I   a n e s t h e t i z e   t h e   c o m p u t e r   a n d   o p e r a t e .   U s i n g   a   r e p l a c e m e n t  
 a n d   s c r e w d r i v e r   f r o m   m y   b a g ,   I   g i v e   t h e   c o m p u t e r   a   n e w   f a n .  
 T h e n ,   I   s t a r t   t h e   c o m p u t e r   n e r v o u s l y ,   b u t   i t   s t a r t s   p e r f e c t l y .  
 M y   c o n f i d e n c e   a n d   d e t e r m i n a t i o n   s w e a t   o f f   a s   a c c o m p l i s h m e n t .   I  
 q u i c k l y   l o o k   f o r   t h e   w o m a n .   S h e   c a n   t e l l   I   s o l v e d   h e r   p r o b l e m   a s   I   w a l k  
 t o w a r d s   h e r   w i t h   a   g r i n ,   a n d   s h e   s m i l e s   t o o .  
 T h i s   c a s e   i s   o n e   o f   t h e   h u n d r e d s   I  v e   s o l v e d   o v e r   t h e   p a s t   f e w   y e a r s ,  
 a l l   w i t h o u t   a   s i n g l e   f a i l u r e   t o   f i n d   a   p r a c t i c a l   s o l u t i o n .   I   s t a r t e d   m y  
 b u s i n e s s   b e c a u s e   a f t e r   s e e i n g   h o w   g r o s s l y   o v e r c h a r g e d   t h e   c o m m u n i t y  
 w a s   b y   c o r p o r a t e   t e c h n i c i a n s ,   I   b e l i e v e d   i t   w o u l d   b e   a   p r a c t i c a l   a n d  
 g r e a t   w a y   f o r   m e   t o   h e l p   t h e   c o m m u n i t y   a n d   h a v e   a   j o b .   A f t e r   f i x i n g  
 c o m p u t e r s   f o r   m y   s c h o o l   f o r   a   y e a r ,   s c h o o l   o f f i c i a l s   q u i c k l y   n o t i c e d   a n d  
 s p r e a d   w o r d   o f   m y   w o r k ,   a l l o w i n g   m y   b u s i n e s s   t o   s p r e a d   l i k e   w i l d f i r e  
 t h r o u g h o u t   t h e   l o c a l   c o m m u n i t i e s .   W i t h   d e t e r m i n a t i o n   ( a n d   s o m e   c r e a t i v i t y )  
 I  v e   s o l v e d   s o m e   v e r y   u n o r d i n a r y   a n d   s t r a n g e   p r o b l e m s .   I  d   l i k e  
 t o   u s e   t h i s   s a m e   w i l l p o w e r   t o   h e l p   p e o p l e   i n   e v e n   b e t t e r   w a y s .   n o   m a t t e r  
 h o w   i m p o s s i b l e   t h e   p r o b l e m s   I   e n c o u n t e r   m a y   s e e m   I   w i l l   a l w a y s  
 r e m e m b e r   w h a t   I   t e l l   m y s e l f   w h e n   I   f i x   c o m p u t e r s :   e v e r y   p r o b l e m   m u s t  
 h a v e   a   s o l u t i o n ,   a n d   I   c a n   f i n d   i t .﻿Part of me is missing. It's an identifiable, yet indescribable absence.
It is odd how I can find more information about the initial supposed
creators, Adam and Eve, than I can about my own. I don’t know
my father, and I doubt that I ever will. He left two weeks after I was
born because I lacked a certain male member. Fidelity to personal convictions
was more important to him than a life that he had just shepherded
into this world. Because of his definitive choice, I will only be
able to associate with him as a support check number until I am eighteen
years of age. After that, who knows?
When I was eleven, my mother decided to call this long-gone man
in search of owed child support. After eleven years of nothingness,
financial distress caused my mother call this absolute last resource. In
my house, we had an early 90s telephone that had a speaker/mute
function. I can still see that outdated piece of technology in the corner
of my mind. That speaker/mute function granted me the only contact
with my father that I have ever known.
I was a mischievous child; I knew that day that my mother was
physically on the phone with my birthfather. I was naïve. I thought
that hearing my father’s voice would fill the void created by years of
absence. I thought that hearing his voice would allow me to place my
father on the same grand plateau as other fathers who had always been
there for their children, loved their children. I snuck into the room
with the technical phone and silently listened in on the conversation. I
felt smart and sly as I pressed the button that put the stranger’s voice on
the speakerphone. “Hah,” I thought, “he can’t hear me, but I can hear
him.” Maybe if he would have known the simple fact that his daughter
was listening, maybe then some shred of human decency would have
shined through.
Those few moments provided me with the only ounce of a man that
comprises half of my biology that I will ever know. Unfortunately, the
stranger didn’t know I was listening. Like my life before, he never knew
that I was there. As he yelled at my mother, I could hear the fear in her
voice as he responded to her pleas with such malice. My mother tried
to convey to my father that I was not just his incarnation to be provided
for, but rather, a spectacular human being. As I sat there, listening intently
to the conversation, I felt validated as a daughter by my mother’s
words, but shattered as a human being by my “father’s” insolence.
In the moments that followed, that little girl, initially so excited
at the prospect of finally being able to physically hear her creator,
was eternally crushed. “Just because she exists doesn’t mean I have
to love her; it doesn’t mean I have to know her. I don’t love her, and
I never will.” Crash. Is it possible for the strongest muscle in your
body to simply break in half? One of my genetic halves had declared
that he loathed my very existence. Those words succeeded to shatter
my heart into a million pieces. I didn’t know how to react. I turned
off the phone and slithered back to my room. How could someone
be so heartless? How could someone that heartless be a part of me?
no words.
I have been sobered by pain in a way that no psychological study
ever could attempt. I may never know my father because of his decision,
and in turn, he will never know me. In the end, his loss will be
the greater one. My “father’s” shining example of misconduct ironically
guides me as a moral, ethical person. rather than searching for any
fault within myself, I use my father’s failure as a tool. I take an earnest 
and honest stance in life. I know my great worth. I have nothing to
prove to anyone, including myself.﻿I sat on the grainy wood floor of the art studio, dog-earing pages of Van Gogh’s early charcoal sketches of poor, working men. With few lines and simple shape, he was able to convey an entire existence. With sweeping and curved strokes, he created cypress trees in motion, swaying back and forth. In my own work, I wanted to replicate the masters. I relished the slow and concentrated process of drawing and painting, the mixing and layering of color, the shading underneath a cheekbone or on the crease of an eyelid, all to represent exactly what I saw. 

This past summer I was confronted with a new way of thinking about art. Make a monument to anything. Create an image of a memory you have. At Cowhouse Studios, an intensive summer art program, I was asked to respond to prompts like these. This was exactly what I hadn’t wanted. It didn’t help my shading or brush strokes, it didn’t require intensive focus or precision. These were flimsy, unfinished, temporary exercises…and yet, I ended up with a few memorable images: a tall, thin French kid named Paul standing unassumingly on the base of a stone monument; a man with a mug of coffee for a head, the coffee running into his intestines; an image of a pair of scissors crafted out of tape, water, and holes in the paper. Seeing these works laid out on the floor alongside those of twenty other kids made me question my perspective. 

Through critiques, artist talks, and trips to conceptual art galleries I started to formulate more and more questions about this world of art that seemed to be blossoming before my eyes. Must art have some aesthetically pleasing quality, or can it just be a visual representation of an idea? How much information should be included when artwork is presented, and is that information itself an aspect of the work of art? Is an artwork’s visceral or intellectual effect more important?

My final project combined aspects of my old thinking about literal representation and my new considerations about art. My subjects were rappers who seem to lose their own identity in the brands they wear, transformed into walking billboards. I used watercolor to paint portraits of them, but replaced their heads with an upside down boot in one case, and a toaster in the other. A man with a boot on his head, given no other context, meant nothing to me intellectually but it had visceral appeal. I had been thinking about issues of consumer identity in 1950’s America since I had watched Mad Men, read Death of a Salesman, and studied the period in AP U.S. History the year before. I found myself integrating my new thoughts about art and my interest in history and pop culture into my artwork. Yet I still spent hours on the technical details, working around the negative space of the dots on the rapper’s dark blue shirt, shading the tones of his yellow jacket. 

This past summer, my narrow view regarding the scope of art was busted open and a vast and beautiful world was revealed to me. I had never really had an interest in theater, but a friend took me to Anton Chekov’s Uncle Vanya, prompting me to discuss Chekov’s plays with my dad when I got home. Before I came to Bronx Science, I was solely a “humanities person,” but an inspiring teacher my freshman year sparked a fascination with biology. Clearly, much still remains for me to explore, and to explore more deeply. My education has just begun.﻿When I was four years-old, I fell in love. It was not a transient
love-one that stayed by my side during the good times and vanished
during the bad-but rather a love so deep that few would understand.
It was not the love for a person, but the love for a language. It was the
love for Spanish.
Having been born and raised behind the Iron Curtain, in a country
where Western influence was limited and the official and only language
was romanian, I was on my own. Everyone around me, especially my
family, had trouble understanding what could possibly draw me to
such a foreign and, in their opinion, unattractive language. But as they
say, love is blind, and the truth of the matter is that I wasn’t even sure
what it was exactly that made Spanish so fascinating to me. The only
thing I knew was that I absolutely adored hearing its perfectly articulated
phrases, and trying to make sense of its sweet and tender words:
serenades to my innocent ear.
Spanish entered through my door on June 16th, 1994, when a man
from the local cable company came to connect our living room to the
rest of the world. That day, I was introduced to “Acasa,” a romanian
cable network dedicated to broadcasting Spanish language telenovelas
(soap operas) to romanian audiences. As I learned to read, I started associating
the romanian subtitles with the Spanish dialogue, and little
by little, I began understanding the language. For a little girl who had
yet to discover new aspects of her own language, this was quite an accomplishment,
but no one around me felt the same way. My father,
enraged at my apparent “obsession” with the language, scolded me incessantly,
declaring that:
“We are immigrating to the United States, not to Mexico! You should
spend your time learning English instead of watching that nonsense!”
Sadly, my family’s objection was only the first of many hardships
I was bound to encounter. When I was nine, my immigration to the
US forced me to say goodbye to what had become a huge and indispensible
part of me. I needed to hear Spanish, to listen to it daily, and
although Los Angeles could be considered a Spanish speaker’s paradise,
my largely romanian neighborhood allowed for little interaction with
the language. For six years, destiny kept us apart and the feelings that
Spanish had evoked in me soon faded away.
But high school brought about a new era in my life, an era in which
my love for Spanish was revived and greatly amplified. For an hour a
day, life was put on hold and I was able to speak and read Spanish more
actively than ever. After two years of Advanced Placement Spanish, I
not only understood the language to perfection, but spoke it flawlessly
as well.
There are no words that can describe how proud and greatly accomplished
I feel today at my ability to speak Spanish. During a recent
trip to Mexico, I was mistaken more than once for one of the natives.
One man, after seeing my romanian last name, asked me if it was my
husband’s, for undoubtedly, he believed, I was Mexican. given to a
romanian girl, whose family members were oblivious to the language,
and who had learned it on her own despite their objections, this was
the greatest compliment of all. In the United States, Spanish is the second
most spoken language and a great asset for anyone who speaks
it. It is not “nonsense,” as my father had dubbed it, and being able to
prove this to him has made me even prouder for loving Spanish.
My love of Spanish has influenced much of who I am today. The
fight that I led against family objections and immigration to a new land
has allowed me to develop an ambitious and aggressive spirit in the
face of adversity. It has made me stronger, and taught me that I must
always fight with unstoppable perseverance for all that is important to
me. I am determined to use my love and passion for Spanish to make
an impact on the world. Currently, Spanish is the primary language
of 21 nations around the globe, and one of the six official languages
of the Un. I want to be the link that connects these nations to the
United States, and to the 40 million Americans whose native language
is Spanish. I want to use my ability to speak Spanish to learn more
about the people of these nations, both on a professional and personal
level. no matter where the path of life takes me, I wish for Spanish to
always be a part of me.
Through the years, Spanish has evolved into one of my most remarkable
accomplishments. Today, I am prouder than ever of loving
Spanish-of having something that distinguishes me from the rest, something
that makes me unique. It is not often the case for a romanianAmerican
girl living in Los Angeles to exhibit such passion and devotion
towards a language that is foreign to both her native and adoptive
countries. nevertheless, Spanish is a big part of whom I am today, and
an even bigger part of who I will be in the future.
﻿“It appears all your cells are dead.”
Only shock prevented the tears from streaming down my face. My
cells were dead. After being accepted into the competitive Stanford
Institutes of Medicine Summer research Program (SIMr), and spending
approximately 170 hours of the past month manipulating human
embryonic stem cells (hESCs), I was back to square one—with only
one month of my internship remaining. How in the world was I going
to make up for lost time?
As I asked myself the question, I thought back to exactly how I had
spent those 170 hours, working to develop the stem cells which now,
under the microscope, were hollow with the absence of life.
I started my internship a little overwhelmed by the fancy hoods,
automatic pipettes, and high-speed centrifuges. But by the first of the
170 hours, I had familiarized myself with the equipment and begun
my quest to find the function of PrDM1—a gene thought to control
replication in hESCs. First though, I needed to make a growth medium
for the hESCs. I painstakingly measured to the ten millionth of a liter, 
testing the accuracy of each measurement multiple times before finally
dispensing it into the medium solution. After I had plated the hESCs
on my new medium, I waited with bated breath for the results.
To my joy, two days later, my cells were thriving and even outgrowing
their new home. Known for their ability to quickly replicate, it was
logical they would need to be frequently transferred. The difficult part
was that, as part of my experiment to find the purpose of PrDM1, I
had different strains of hESCs (some serving as “control” strains) which
could not be mixed. Transferring hESCs is a process requiring great
concentration and coordination. It took me about three hours the first
time. By the end of the month, though, transferring was second nature
and my cells were doing well—I had inserted a fluorescent protein
into their DnA to verify the hESCs containing the resistant vector were
living, as hypothesized. I had successfully created hundreds of stable
hESC colonies of different strains. Everything seemed to be going so
well . . .
But now was not the time to reminiscence. I snapped out of my
daydream and refocused on the situation at hand.
“Ariela? I know taking the news the first time can be hard, but keep
in mind, you probably didn’t do anything wrong. You know how sensitive
they are . . . this sort of thing is common when working with stem
cells.”
“I know,” I said, smiling genuinely this time, “I’m ready to try
again.”
My project was not completed by the end of the summer, but
through hard work, I was able to replicate parts of the experiment to
produce valuable data. Although the experiment did not go as planned,
I am proud of myself for persevering. As Thomas Edison said, “Our
greatest weakness lies in giving up. The most certain way to succeed is
always to try just one more time.”﻿The title of this piece is “Abuelo” which means grandfather
in Spanish. At first glance, it seems just a waste of a snapshot. Perhaps
just another struggling photographer trying to pay the rent or who simply
had one more shot left in a roll of film and took a random picture.
It is an 8" by 11" color photograph of a man’s neck, more specifically
the back of his neck. It is quite wrinkled and brown and white hair has
invaded the scalp. At first I questioned why the photographer did not
simply take a picture of his grandfather’s face. A face would allow viewers
to see what the grandfather looks like and tell some kind of story,
certainly more than what the back of his neck could possibly tell.
What I came to realize is that this is no random shot. What this picture
wants is for me to imagine and to create a story. It does not necessarily
wish to be framed but the picture does not want to be overlooked
or neglected. It wants to be given a chance to prove itself as equally
worthy as any other photograph. I do not need the face of the Abuelo
to imagine the story of his life or personality. The back of his neck is
just as important as his face.
After spending some time with this Abuelo I learned that the back
of his neck is not just brown, it is tanned. not just a natural tan, that
some people are born with, but a particular shade of tan that can only
be attained after continuous exposure to the sun. Perhaps this man
does a lot of work outside. The distinguished wrinkles are more than
just lines. In between them there seems to be some kind of dust. I recognize
this dust because it is the kind of dust my father gets when he is
working with joint compound.
After examining a little more closely I noticed the multiple scars
on his scalp which prevent his hair from growing. The tiny hole in his
earlobe reminds me that he was young once and had, like many young
teenage boys, pierced his ear. Around his neck I can see a glimpse of
a brown necklace. This necklace is very familiar to me because I own
one. It is a very thin string with a small rectangular cloth at both ends.
Many Catholics believe that it is something sacred.
In this case this picture is not measured by the thousands of words
it is worth, but it is measured by what I took from it. It should not be 
criticized by what it does not have but should be valued for what it
does have. I have found something in common with this photograph.
All along what this picture wanted from me was to find something familiar.
That familiarity sets this particular picture apart from all other
photographs I have encountered and what has kept it vividly visible
after having come across it years ago. This is exactly what this photograph
longed for: to be found familiar and remembered.﻿My reasons to be a doctor are very similar to why
most people choose their career path: I want to make things fairer.
People such as social workers are out to help make the world a little
less unjust. It’s not necessarily injustice from other people that I want to
fight as these people do, but injustice from other factors. Many people
who are close to me have been struck down from their future in ways
that it’s impossible for them to recover. My aunt was a great artist and
loving mother before she developed severe schizophrenia. She now
locks herself in her house for weeks at a time and remains isolated
from her family. My friend Eric, who was once in his school’s varsity
basketball league, cannot play his senior season because a car accident
left him nearly paralyzed. Finally, my friend vince’s depression has
stripped him of his will to live, and despite attempts of over a dozen
psychiatrists and medications he still spends most of his days aimlessly
lying in bed. While I try very hard to cheer him up by talking to and
entertaining him I am deeply concerned about his future. This trend is
something that I’m seeing almost everywhere. More and more people
are becoming depressed and hopeless, and I want to be able to put life
and happiness back into them.
not only do I see these injustices in my life, when I’m volunteering
at my local hospital my desire to help become even more emboldened
by the people I meet. A new grandmother I met recently had
her spine shattered when she fell from a ladder back onto a table. As I
talked to her, I remembered how many times I’ve seen pictures of my
science competitions and honors, including 2nd Place in Medicine
and Health at the Intel International Science and Engineering Fair and
become the Top Florida Presenter at the national Junior Science and
Humanities Symposium. My computer-aided designs were published
in Biomaterials Forum and the Journal of Thoracic and Cardiovascular
Surgery.
This remarkable experience inspired me to perform many additional
research projects and I consider it a turning point in my life. It has
increased my passion for research and my determination to be a physician
and work on devices or pharmaceuticals that improve people’s
quality of life. I have also become more confident in my research efforts
and am able to contact any researcher to pursue a position in
their laboratory. I have realized that there are many opportunities for
students like myself to contribute to labs and brainstorm solutions for
current problems.
grandmother lifting me and my cousins and caring for us, and became
overcome with emotion. While I don’t believe her ability to care for her
grandchildren will be destroyed, I know that she won’t have the same
opportunities as other grandparents and the inequality of the situation
makes me extremely upset. I want nothing more than to give back her
ability to walk and lift her grandkids. I believe being a doctor can allow
me to bring this closer.﻿He's in my arms, a new addition to the family. I’m too overwhelmed.
“That’s why I wanted you to go to Bishop Loughlin,” she
says, preparing baby bottles. “But ma, I chose Tech because I wanted to
be challenged.” “Well, you’re going to have to deal with it,” she replies,
adding, “Your aunt watched you when she was in high school.” “But
ma, there are three of them. It’s hard!”
returning home from a summer program that cemented intellectual
and social independence to find a new baby was not exactly thrilling.
Add him to the toddler and seven year old sister I have and there’s no
wonder why I sing songs from Blue’s Clues and The Backyardigans
instead of sane seventeen year old activities. It’s never been simple; as
a female and the oldest, I’m to significantly rear the children and clean
up the shabby apartment before an ounce of pseudo freedom reaches
my hands. If I can manage to get my toddler brother onto the city bus
and take him home from day care without snot on my shoulder, and if I
can manage to take off his coat and sneakers without demonic screaming
for no apparent reason, then it’s a good day. Only, waking up at
three in the morning to work, the only free time I have, is not my cup
of Starbucks.
We were already different at age fourteen. She gave birth to me and
went to an alternative high school; I established closeness with new
friends in a competitive high school. She and my then present father
were taking care of me; I was studying the environmental effects on
the onset of schizophrenia. She took her daughter to preschool, and
I vowed to never let anything get in the way of my academics. Even
though I’m taking courses that prepare me for a career in the medical
field, a path I would not pursue even at risk of spontaneous combustion
of Earth, there is no excuse for me to fail. After all, my family has a
reputation for failure, and if I don’t push myself, no one else will. When
I think of me not choosing the effortless Bishop Loughlin High School
and traditional fun with friends and preferring the intense courses,
dedication to achievement, and overall feeling of self-worth, I cannot
believe my mother still can’t accept my choice.
One thing I’ve learned growing up in Brooklyn is that disappointment
happens often. The bike I rode to school in the morning wasn’t there 
when I went to get it in the afternoon. That’s Brooklyn. Instead of
seeing movies with friends on weekends, I work hard and attempt to
keep the little kids out of my mom’s hair. That’s Brooklyn. Instead of
going outside to my backyard, I remember I don’t have one, and settle
for the 12’ by 6’ concrete space in front of my house. That’s Brooklyn.
My Brooklyn doesn’t feature flowers of the freshest air or people who
smile and say hi. Instead, there’s what might have been Orbit gum on
the floor among the other thousand wads, a pool of strangely colored
vomit, and the monotonous working class boarding the subway to the
job it will complain about when it returns home.
If there’s anything that Brooklyn has taught me, it’s “just do it.” I owe
it to myself to keep trying, not because I have to, but because I want to
prove to myself that I can. I’ll have to endure the requirements of helping
to raise my siblings and other responsibilities. After the chaos and
traffic and noise have settled, I know I’ve made the right choice, even if
my mother hasn’t. And it’s all worth it.﻿The alarm clock is, to many high school students, a wailing 
monstrosity whose purpose is to torture all who are sleep-deprived.
Those who believe this are misguided, and are simply viewing the situation
from a twisted perspective. For when these imprudent early-risers
blearily rub their eyes each morning, and search in vain for whatever
is making that earsplitting noise, they are, without a doubt, annoyed.
Why?
It isn’t because the only thing they desire is to sleep a few extra
hours, as many would presume. no, these kids are groggy and irritable
because they are waking up to what they think will be another horribly
boring day of school. If one of these foolish Sallys or Joes were,
say, sleeping comfortably on a Saturday morning, I could certainly see
something different happening. A beautiful breakfast of tantalizing vittles—eggs,
hash browns, and the like—would be ready and waiting for
them on their kitchen tables. But the scrumptious delight to outshine
them all would be a slab of bacon, piled proudly for the taking 
would be that wafting, wondrous bacon smell that would draw dear,
sweet Sally abruptly from her slumber—long before an alarm clock has
the chance to pierce the air.
Oh, bacon: what a marvelous, glorious thing! I live for those heartstoppingly
good strips of succulence, so crispy and crunchy, so packed
with perfection. The thought of having a plate of bacon every day, perhaps
every school day, sends me into sheer waves of ecstasy!
To be sure, many others would also wax poetic about this lovely
breakfast food. But precious few would share this same zeal for learning.
I, however, can smugly decree that I do regard both very highly. I
brightly waken every morning to the mellifluous joy that sounds from
my alarm clock, a huge smile plastered on my face, and the yearning
to learn in my heart.
When I board my school bus Monday through Friday, it is still pitch
black outside. Busmates will groan about how even the day has not
yet dragged itself out of bed; I only chuckle through their thirty-minute
rant fest as we chug down the freeway. Opting to be part of a faraway
Magnet school, after all, has its benefits. My peers may still not
look forward to waking up earlier, but when we are all together in
a classroom, we take on the “bacon mentality.” I have the opportunity
to choose from a wealth of diverse classes, and love arriving to
school each day with the prospect of having a new Spanish History
lesson—taught to me in Spanish, for a change. Teachers, driven by
the enthusiasm of their Magnet students, are inspired to create new
classes for advanced students, including those who have completed AP
Spanish Literature and are still eager to learn more, or those who want
to learn about a specific aspect of a subject—we now have a Middle
Eastern History class. not to be outdone, the post-AP exam period
of my English Language class included an intensive literature study,
where we laughed at good ol’ Yossarian in Catch-22, and developed a
strong attachment to Jay gatsby. I’d like to think that The Great Gatsby’s
pursuit of Daisy is not unlike my own pursuit of bacon. I’ve gobbled up
new knowledge rapidly, hankering after it like any elusive bacon strip,
and happily digesting any new bits of information.
But six classes a year are simply not enough to satisfy my hunger
for knowledge. Just as I eat bacon all three meals of the day (when possible),
I attempt to learn all days of the week. rather than make another
trip to some lackluster movie theatre on the weekend, I dedicate my
time to reading another good book, or reviewing Economics with my
friends. But high school is starting to smell like leftovers to me now; I
want fresh, new, crisp learning. I want not to read a textbook written by
a renowned professor: I want to hear him speak directly. I’m ready for
the university, and hunger for all the new opportunities waiting for me!
I’ve finished my breakfast, and now it’s time to get going to school.﻿The giant brown bear is creeping quietly behind the blissfully
pink duck ready to wring his bare paws around her neck and
throw her into a pot of boiling stew.
We turned the page.
While I chuckled at the impracticality of a bear boiling water to eat
a duck, especially a pink duck, I lifted my head to find Matthew tiptoeing
about the room exhibiting the meanest, most ferocious look his
cute face could conjure. All the while, little Monica sat huddled next
to my arm honestly afraid to turn the page and find her favorite pink
creature in a bear’s “tummy.”
It was one of those moments of my hours spent reading with children
at the library when it dawned just how much, as a “grown up,” I
was missing.
I remembered the Thursday when victoria bounded into the reading
room showcasing in her small hands a golden certificate from school. 
“Best reader,” it glistened. A smile came across my face as I looked into
the eyes of the petite 7-year old who just last year had been held back
in first grade because her reading was not up to par.
It was the same smile that had filled my face six months prior, when
victoria joined the reading program and I saw the other volunteers
instantly point at me. Our supervisor had agreed with them, knowing
I would use my patient disposition and friendly way with children to
motivate our new student. I had nodded vigorously, smiling, not only
because I was proud of the confidence they had in me, but because
nothing would make me happier than taking on the challenge of helping
victoria improve her reading.
After spending the first session responding to an unrelenting stream
of questions, I recognized that victoria’s talkative nature and impatience
for answers overshadowed her desire to sit down and read. I
treasured her energy and insatiable curiosity and fueled it with my own
enthusiasm. Yet, for every interest she presented, I took her to scan the
library shelves in search of a related book. I watched her eyes grow
with excitement as I tirelessly helped her press through the stories, a
journey in search of her answers. Some of the books I chose were difficult
for her, but we read through them together, challenging limits
and quenching the thirst for knowledge. In books, I told her time and
again, she would find all she wanted to know.
Taking her certificate in my hands, I couldn’t help but be proud that
part of this glittering piece of paper was likely my doing.
My thoughts were interrupted by victoria’s chant. “I got best reader!”
she exclaimed over and over jumping between feet as her arms waved
from side to side. Without hesitation, I followed. Holding her certificate
up for all to see, I matched my footing with hers as we hopped the
length of the room giggling.
Whether it is victory celebrations or talking in different voices,
whenever I am with these kids, I find myself being pulled into their
childhood world—a world of simplicity, of undying curiosity, and of
pure innocence. It is a world in which if everything is not perfect, it
definitely can be. And with a simple “prayer to god” or “kiss on the
boo-boo” it will be.
 Though I go in each week to be these kids’ teacher, I come out,
having been their student. They have introduced me to a side of me I
never realized existed.
As I enter college, it is not only my intelligence or my accumulated
knowledge, but also the kid in me who will bring success. This child
will jump to try every new activity with an enthusiasm that cannot
fade. She will ask questions of everything she sees, of everything she
hears and of everything she reads. She will dream big and for every
step she stumbles upon towards that dream, she will get right back up
and step again, this time, a little more carefully. And she will do all this,
approach every life hurdle or triumph with a smile- a big contagious
smile.﻿I have always been a science-math girl. I sighed and sulked
through classes on US History and French in eager anticipation of the
formulas and applications I would be learning later in the day. I believe
there are many factors which attribute to my success, two being my
fascination and persistence.
When I was seven I once asked what math was good for and why
I should learn it. The answer I received simply does not do math justice,
“One day when you’re in line at the grocery store the cashier will
give you too little change and you’ll be glad you learned this.” now
in calculus I see the application of all these once foreign symbols, formulas,
and letters. I am often amazed by the calculations I am able to
do using the cumulative information acquired from nearly 12 years of
education, such as how to maximize the volume of a box given a certain
surface area. Math is not just plug and chug as many view it but
it requires creativity and thinking out of the box to solve the problems
encountered in the real world. Beauty lies in its simplicity and in the
fact that proofs and observations are what brought the golden rectangle
from ancient greece, Pascal’s triangle, and the Pythagorean Theorem as
well as a host of other theorems, equations, and postulates. Math has
made the impossible possible and the once long and tedious, simple
and quick. The genius of it is amazing as well as the fact that any person
is capable of applying and discovering it. I draw graphs and try to
make shapes from functions for fun, count to 10 to calm down, and
save money at the store, too. For all of these reasons and many more, I
am fascinated by math.
I wasn’t always good at math, contrary to what students in my classes
might say. When I first showed interest in math in the 5th grade my
parents laughed; middle school was even worse. Incoming 6th graders
were given a test on the second day of school and depending on their
scores were placed into a high or low speed math class. I was put in
the slow speed math and missed a lot of class my first year, as a result
my grade drifted from a B to a C to a C-, then I got help. I knew I liked
math and I didn’t want to do bad in it so I bought books and hired
my older brother to help me. I eventually made it to a B+. Later, in the
summer after my junior year, I took a course that covered nearly a year
of Calculus. I was told that if I decided to take Calculus AB, I would be
bored, so I went for a challenge. My strongest subject began to take up
most of my time. I had to read review books, go online for help, and
stay in during nutrition and lunch for extra instruction. It was hard,
but my dedication paid off and I earned an A. This persistence and
drive also help me excel in math.﻿Every Sunday monday, my family's home plays host to
what my mom likes to call “mother-son bonding time.” This Sunday is
no different. My mom and I sit down with our regular Chai Latte and
Caramel Frappuchino, and absorb the aroma of the coffee beans and
the gentle rays of the winter sun.
“So Alex, what are we going to do for dad’s 50th birthday?” When
my mom asks a question about upcoming plans, she doesn’t expect an
answer; she already has something in mind. Many years ago, my mom
started a family tradition of making gifts personal: poems, songs, skits.
At first I didn’t understand why we were wasting so much time when we
could just buy a gift card from the local mall. But my outlook changed
when I turned twelve. For my birthday, my parents gave me a poster, a
product of their many hours on Photoshop. With long hair, sideburns,
and a slim suit, I had become the fifth member of the Beatles crossing
Abbey road. Every morning when I wake up, this poster opposite my
bed is the first thing I see, and I start off the day with a smile. Since 
then, I have needed little persuasion to start working on the next gift
project. Actually, I even look forward to these times, when my parents
find their inner children, and the trivial worries of life simply whisk
away. My dad, both figuratively and literally, ditches his office suit and
proper manners, and dons a red woman’s wig and high heels to practice
a scene. My mom stops scolding my sister and me, and joins us in our
ruckus, doing the jitterbug and blowing on a harmonica. These are the
moments in my family when there are no children or adults, just four
people who give in to their creative urges.
“How about throwing Dad a party, and making him a movie?” my
mom asks as I use my straw to fish for any remaining coffee at the bottom
of the cup. “Just think of a movie you like and we’ll parody it.”
A big fan of “the-life-is-like-a-box-of-chocolates” theory, I suggest my
favorite movie, Forrest gump. She smiles. “OK, but only if you play
Forrest.”
When we come home, my mom takes down a box, heavy with the
dust of age, scribbled with messy russian lettering. I peer over her
shoulder as she empties onto the living room floor the contents: my
dad’s life story in black and white. Within minutes, I am completely immersed
in the photographs I have never seen before. As I gape at a picture
of a bearded teenager laughing with his friends, I do a double take.
Is this the same clean-shaven man who helped me to prove the theorem
that all right angles are congruent and always tells me to tuck in my
shirt? I shake my head in disbelief as I thumb through some pictures of
my dad and his friends with guitars in the forest singing songs around a
camp fire. My mom explains that the Soviet government didn’t approve
of these songs, so the woods became their only refuge. I am now starting
to understand why my dad, limited in what he could sing or say
as a youth, pushes my sister and me to ask probing questions, survey
news from all sides of the political spectrum, and watch controversial
movies. Looking down at one of the pictures of my dad in the forest, it
just hits me: the movie should be called “Forest guy.”
 With each picture comes its own story, and collectively, they create
a collage of my dad’s past that I had never known. But even more surprises
await me as I watch documentaries about russian leaders in the
20th century. To truly parody Forrest gump, some “great” Communist
leaders must be part of Forest guy’s life, just as Kennedy and nixon
were part of Forrest gump’s. Coming up with bizarre ideas of how
my dad met the Communist leaders is the most entertaining part of
our moviemaking. My stomach throbs with laughter as I conceive the
impossible notion of my dad bullying gorbachev into destroying the
Berlin Wall.
Along with russian history, I also discover part of my family’s: while
discussing the horrors of Stalin’s reign with my mom, I am shocked
to hear that my father was born in exile, and one of his uncles died in
Stalin’s concentration camp for joking about Communists. It’s hard to
believe that someone can be killed for cracking a joke, when cracking
a safe will only get you a few years in jail. Luckily, when I am joking
about Lenin and Stalin in my film, my only worry is crowd response.
It is the day of the party, and as I look around at the apprehensive
crowd, my instincts yell, “run, Alex! run!” Soon, the lights dim, and
my anxiety grows. I am watching the viewers as intensely as they are
watching the screen. As each joke is met with uproarious laughter and
table slapping, my breaths become calmer and my fingers stop shaking.
Twenty-five minutes later, I hear the long awaited ovation. I gaze from
table to table at the sea of smiles, but one face catches my attention. It
is my dad’s, showing complete disbelief that something so grandiose
could be done about him and for him. All these weeks I had been so
focused on the guests’ reactions that I never thought about my dad’s.
Although he is trying hard to contain himself, I see a tear sneak from
the side of his eye. It is the first time I have seen my dad cry.
Yes, life is a box of chocolates. Some are delicious, some too bitter
for your taste. But the best are like the one I picked that day; they seem
like any other chocolate, but when you bite into them, they surprise
you with an unexpected flavor.﻿The cold mid-August San Fransisco bay fog was just beginning
to roll in over Piedmont as I snapped the cover shut on Jennings
Burch’s book “They Cage the Animals at night,” the most recent addition
to my “get ready for 7th grade summer reading extravaganza.” It is
a story about a young boy who lives in various orphanages and foster
homes with only his stuffed animal, Doggie, for companionship. My
cousin from Connecticut had told me that it was a fabulous book, but
little did I know how it would touch my life and the lives of others.
As I gazed across my room at the pile of stuffed animals I had been
collecting since I was young, an idea came to me. I would collect stuffed
animals for children like Jennings. First, I contacted local agencies that
support children suffering from abuse and neglect and told them about
my idea. They said that the stuffed animals would be very helpful in
therapy and would certainly lift children’s spirits.
I decided to call my project “Cuddle Buddies.” now I actually had
to come up with the “buddies”! I wrote articles for the local and school
newspapers, telling Jennings’ story and asking for donations of stuffed
animals. My phone rang off the hook; schools, families, local businesses
and toy manufacturers all wanted to help. Much to my delight this
project took the Bay Area by storm. By the second week my living room
looked like a zoo with animals tucked in every corner and on top of
each chair. Every time my mom and I made deliveries to the agencies,
the kids would be waiting for their Cuddle Buddies with their eyes
down, too shy to look but shaking with excitement.
Six years after its launch, Cuddle Buddies continues to expand.
Each year I solicit from more toy companies and communities. now
over 25,000 stuffed animals have been donated to agencies in the Bay
Area and Connecticut, emergency units, two orphanages in Africa
and one in germany. At the Saidia Children’s Home in Kenya, Simon,
a seven year old, whose parents died from AIDS, couldn’t sleep at
night. When the Cuddle Buddies were laid out for him to choose
from, Simon selected a grey koala bear and soon after was sleeping
through the night. My heart ached when I learned that a young girl
in Oakland had stopped cutting herself so she could get the big black 
dog that she wanted so badly. I never dreamed that Cuddle Buddies
would be used in these ways.
Knowing that I would be going on to college and that others my
age could do what I have done, I decided to expand Cuddle Buddies.
To spread the word beyond the Bay Area I designed a website, www.
cuddlebuddies.net, and contacted newspapers and Tv stations across
the nation. The response was overwhelming. I heard from kids, parents,
agencies and even The girls Scouts. I am now helping to establish
two dozen Cuddle Buddies chapters from Utah to north Carolina.
This has been a great experience. I have learned how to follow
through on an idea, how to champion a cause and how to deal with
setbacks. But most importantly, I have learned how easy it is to positively
impact a life and the joy that comes from it. I will go to college
with these lessons in mind and hope to continue my work with Cuddle
Buddies, even as I engage in a whole new set of exciting academic and
nonacademic pursuits. E v e r y   y e a r ,   m y   C h r i s t m a s   w i s h l i s t   w o u l d   r e a d ,    D e a r   S a n t a ,  
 a l l   I   w a n t   f o r   C h r i s t m a s   i s   a   b a b y   b r o t h e r .    A t   a g e   n i n e ,   I   k n e w   S a n t a   h a d  
 t o   b e   r e a l   b e c a u s e ,   o n e   d a y ,   m y   m o m   a n n o u n c e d   t h a t   s h e   w a s   p r e g n a n t .  
 A f t e r   t e n   y e a r s   o f   b e i n g   a n   o n l y   c h i l d ,   I   c o u l d   n o t   h a v e   a n t i c i p a t e d   h o w  
 m u c h   m y   l i f e   w o u l d   c h a n g e   b e c a u s e   o f   a   l i t t l e   b r o t h e r .   I   r e c e i v e d   t h e  
 h o n o r   o f   n a m i n g   h i m ,   a n d   I   c h o s e   J a s o n .   I n   r e t r o s p e c t ,   I   s h o u l d   h a v e  
 n a m e d   m y   b r o t h e r    I v a n   t h e   T e r r i b l e .   
 J a s o n   f o l l o w e d   m e   e v e r y w h e r e   l i k e   a n   i r r i t a t i n g   s h a d o w .   M y   g r i e v a n c e s  
 t o   m y   m o m   w e r e   c o u n t l e s s ,   e s p e c i a l l y   a f t e r   J a s o n   d r e w   a l l   o v e r  
 m y   b e d r o o m   w a l l s   a n d   m u r d e r e d   m y   p e t   f i s h ,   g o l d i e .   M y   m o m  s   t y p i c a l  
 r e s p o n s e   w a s ,    W e l l ,   i s n  t   t h i s   w h a t   y o u  v e   a l w a y s   w i s h e d   f o r ?   
 J a s o n  s   m i s c h i e f   r e a c h e d   a   n e w   h e i g h t   o n e   m o r n i n g   w h e n   I   b e c a m e  
 t h e   v i c t i m   o f   a   f i v e   y e a r   o l d   w i t h   s c i s s o r s .   I   s t a r e d   i n t o   t h e   b a t h r o o m  
 m i r r o r   a n d   d u n k e d   m y   h e a d   u n d e r   c o l d   w a t e r   t o   m a k e   s u r e   I   w a s   n o t  
 d r e a m i n g .   W h a t   I   s a w   e n r a g e d   m e !   I n   t h e   m i d d l e   o f   t h e   n i g h t ,   M i c h a e l  
 h a d   c u t   o f f   f i v e   i n c h e s   o f   m y   l o n g ,   b l a c k   h a i r   f r o m   o n e   s i d e   o f   m y  
 h e a d .   I   s t o o d   i n   h o r r o r ,   a n d   s t o r m e d   t o   t h e   k i t c h e n   w h e r e   I   f o u n d   t h e  
 r e s t   o f   m y   f a m i l y   c a l m l y   e a t i n g   b r e a k f a s t .   I   f l a s h e d   a   m e n a c i n g   s t a r e   a t  
 m y   b r o t h e r ,   w h o   s n i c k e r e d   a c r o s s   t h e   t a b l e .    Y o u  r e   g o i n g   t o   p a y   f o r  
 t h i s !    I   s c r e a m e d .   F u r i o u s   b e y o n d   w o r d s ,   I   c o u l d   n o t   e v e n   b e g i n   t o  
 d e s c r i b e   m y   r a g e .   I n s t e a d ,   I   r a n   b a c k   t o   t h e   b a t h r o o m   a n d   h u d d l e d   o n  
 t h e   f l o o r .  
  W h a t   a m   I   g o i n g   t o   d o ?    I   w a s   i r a t e   a n d   p a n i c k e d   a t   t h e   s a m e   t i m e .  
 A s   a   f r e s h m a n   i n   h i g h   s c h o o l ,   I   w a s   v e r y   s e n s i t i v e   a b o u t   m y   a p p e a r a n c e .  
 I   h a d   b e e n   h e s i t a n t   t o   c u t   m y   h a i r   p a s t   t h e    t i p s   t o   t a k e   a w a y   t h e  
 s p l i t - e n d s    t r i m ,   b e c a u s e   m y   h a i r   h a d   b e e n   t h e   s a m e   l e n g t h   f o r   s e v e n  
 y e a r s .   I   a g o n i z e d   o v e r   t h e   s i t u a t i o n   a n d   c o n c o c t e d   m y   s w i f t   c o u n t e r - a t t a c k .  
 I n s t e a d   o f   c h o p p i n g   o f f   h i s   h a i r ,   I   f o u n d   i n s p i r a t i o n   t o   a p p e a s e   m y  
 a n g e r   i n   t h e   p a g e s   o f   T e e n   m a g a z i n e   a n d   c o n s i d e r e d   t r e n d y   h a i r s t y l e s .  
 M y   b r o t h e r   w a s   s t u n n e d   b e c a u s e   I   d i d   n o t   r e t a l i a t e .   v i c t o r y   w a s   m i n e .  
 B e c a u s e   o f   e x p e r i e n c e s   s u c h   a s   t h i s ,   I   h a v e   l e a r n e d   t o   a d a p t ,   t o   k e e p  
 m y   f o c u s ,   a n d   t o   s o l v e   p r o b l e m s   w i t h   l i t t l e   o r   n o   r e s o u r c e s .   I   a p p r o a c h  
 t o u g h   s i t u a t i o n s   w i t h   o b j e c t i v i t y   a n d   d e t e r m i n a t i o n .   L i k e   m a n y   o t h e r  
 e x p e r i e n c e s   w i t h   m y   b r o t h e r   a n d   a t   s c h o o l ,   I   h a v e   d e a l t   w i t h   d i f f i c u l t    
 s i t u a t i o n s   a n d   t u r n e d   t h e m   i n t o   p o s i t i v e   o p p o r t u n i t i e s   f o r   c h a n g e .   I   a m  
 f l e x i b l e   w i t h   t h e   c i r c u m s t a n c e s   g i v e n   t o   m e ,   a n d   I   s t r i v e   f o r   t h e   b e s t  
 o u t c o m e .   D e s p i t e   t h e   c r a z i n e s s   S a n t a  s   g i f t   b r i n g s ,   J a s o n  s   c o n t i n u o u s  
 s u r p r i s e s   p r o v i d e   l a u g h t e r   t o   m y   l i f e .   A s   f o r   m y   h a i r ,   I   d i d   c u t   o f f   t h e  
 f i v e   i n c h e s   f r o m   t h e   o t h e r   s i d e ,   a n d   I   a c t u a l l y   c h e r i s h e d   t h e   n e w   l o o k  
 b e t t e r .   T h a n k s ,   S a n t a .In our house, English is not English. Not in the phonetic sense, like short a is for apple, but rather in the pronunciation  in our house, snake is snack. Words do not roll off our tongues correctly  yet I, who was pulled out of class to meet with language specialists, and my mother from Malaysia, who pronounces film as flim, understand each other perfectly.

In our house, there is no difference between cast and cash, which was why at a church retreat, people made fun of me for cashing out demons. I did not realize the glaring difference between the two Englishes until my teacher corrected my pronunciations of hammock, ladle, and siphon. Classmates laughed because I pronounce accept as except, success as sussess. I was in the Creative Writing conservatory, and yet words failed me when I needed them most.

Suddenly, understanding flower is flour wasnt enough. I rejected the English that had never seemed broken before, a language that had raised me and taught me everything I knew. Everybody elses parents spoke with accents smarting of Ph.D.s and university teaching positions. So why couldnt mine?

My mother spread her sunbaked hands and said, This is where I came from, spinning a tale with the English she had taught herself.

When my mother moved from her village to a town in Malaysia, she had to learn a brand new language in middle school: English. In a time when humiliation was encouraged, my mother was defenseless against the cruel words spewing from the teacher, who criticized her paper in front of the class. When she began to cry, the class president stood up and said, Thats enough.

Be like that class president, my mother said with tears in her eyes. The class president took her under her wing and patiently mended my mothers strands of language. She stood up for the weak and used her words to fight back.

We were both crying now. My mother asked me to teach her proper English so old white ladies at Target wouldnt laugh at her pronunciation. It has not been easy. There is a measure of guilt when I sew her letters together. Long vowels, double consonants  I am still learning myself. Sometimes I let the brokenness slide to spare her pride but perhaps I have hurt her more to spare mine.

As my mothers vocabulary began to grow, I mended my own English. Through performing poetry in front of 3000 at my schools Season Finale event, interviewing people from all walks of life, and writing stories for the stage, I stand against ignorance and become a voice for the homeless, the refugees, the ignored. With my words I fight against jeers pelted at an old Asian street performer on a New York subway. My mothers eyes are reflected in underprivileged ESL children who have so many stories to tell but do not know how. I fill them with words as they take needle and thread to make a tapestry.

In our house, there is beauty in the way we speak to each other. In our house, language is not broken but rather bursting with emotion. We have built a house out of words. There are friendly snakes in the cupboard and snacks in the tank. It is a crooked house. It is a little messy. But this is where we have made our home.﻿This summer, I went to the governor’s Honors Program, also
known as gHP, a six-week intensive college-like experience where the
best and brightest students in georgia gather to learn and grow as individuals.
It was the best thing that has ever happened to me. That
is something of a hackneyed phrase; people cheapen the extremes of
language by constantly using superlatives for everyday occurrences,
making it harder and harder to actually describe the few subtle and
transcendent moments of life. In Madame Bovary, Flaubert claims that 
language is but a cracked kettle on which we play music for the bears to
dance, while we dream of making the stars weep. The experiences we
have never fit within the too-close confines of language; but I will try
anyway. The classes that I attended were nothing like the classes that I
would take normally. nowhere else would the teachers encourage sixteen
and seventeen year-olds to look for sexual imagery in Shakespeare,
and then find even more than they did, without the exercise being
sordid instead of literary. I attended classes named anything from Dirty
Words: Clean Thoughts (a class on Profanity; the only course in which
the use of profane or vulgar language was prohibited) to Teenage Female
Angst: Beyond Holden Caulfield to Buffy the Vampire Slayer. All of them
opened my mind to a brand-new way of looking at the world, and processing
information. Thanks to the varying education that I received, I
know that valuable information about life is not only in the “classics,”
but even appears in seemingly mindless and trashy zombie films.
While I learned a lot in the classrooms of gHP, I feel that most of
my growth occurred outside of the classroom. I met the sort of people
who will change the world, who will go forth into the world and, without
making a big name, will do the things that make the world a better
place. My best friends there were people that I would never have met;
people I would never have known existed; people that I can now not
imagine life without. One was a math major, an excellent athlete in
every sport, and an accomplished singer; the running joke was that the
only thing that he was bad at was failing. The other was a phenomenal
writer, always ready to play an endearing trick on somebody, and the
former’s girl-friend. Both of them were fairly conservative Christians,
and yet totally accepting of me for whom I was, despite any of my
clashes with their beliefs. I did not limit myself though, and made it almost
a mission to find and talk to as many of the people there, because
I was sure that each and every one of them would have an interesting
perspective on things. Once I was walking back from playing Frisbee,
and was stopped to discuss what the ethical framework for life ought
to be; just for fun. The experience that I had there has undeniably
changed me forever.﻿"Heritage" is the first word in my family dictionary, a noun
and adverb, for who we are and how we live. My parents taught me that
my heritage defines my identity. Through honorific speech towards my
elders and adherence to traditional values, I accepted Korean customs
as part of the duality that defines my life in America.
Yet, a turbulent disunity stormed under that surface of peaceful coexistence.
Though I outwardly represented the model Korean-American
son, I loathed fitting this stereotypical mold. My shell was so well-constructed,
however, that others mistook me for a successful immigrant. I
felt as if I were ripped from the very fabric of my American birthplace,
and plunged into a vacuum between my ancestral home and the world
I lived in. I felt that my heritage was a short anchor against the relentlessly
rising tide: I had to break free—or go under.
While struggling with this chain, however, I came to appreciate what
my heritage offered. As a martial arts instructor, I supported students in
building discipline and character. As a bilingual tutor, I helped immigrant
children adapt to life in America. Soon, I realized that my heritage
was an instrument for harmonizing personal development with service
to others.
When I was selected to serve in the HOBY World Leadership
Congress, my family’s financial circumstances did not cover the $1,350
required fee. By infusing my American entrepreneurial energy with
Asian medicine, I covered the cost by selling herbal products at my
martial arts studio. Though the novelty of my venture brought me to the
verge of bankruptcy, I persisted. By researching products, competitors
and clientele, I streamlined my inventory to best serve my customers.
Eventually, I created a business aimed at offering others a healthy
lifestyle. Sweaty students gulped green tea and chocolate-flavored
snacks, dropping dollars for the cause that lay within my cardboard
cashbox. Supported by outside donations, I became greater L.A.’s ambassador
in Washington D.C. Infused with new inspiration, I returned
with a project grant to spread the martial arts lifestyle of discipline,
confidence, and respect.
As my heritage anchored itself to the bedrock of my battles, I integrated
Korean tradition with my American identity. Fusing service
with civic duty, I entered the L.A. County Sheriff’s Explorer Academy.
Through the grueling training, I learned to work as part of a team.
Appointed as Drill Instructor a year later, I took command of training
the older recruits. Through a relationship of mutual respect, I prepared
my platoon to dutifully serve the community. Leading this racially
mixed group, I empathized beyond the duality of my own identity. I
soon discovered that my heritage must transcend my personal struggles
to truly embrace diversity.
Heritage is not a mere ethnic label—it is the honor and humanity
that I am inspired to uphold. Today, I am grateful to my parents for
endowing me with a spirit of dedication and determination. They bestowed
a philosophy that speaks through my actions. This inheritance
forms the base of my integrity as an individual, and defines my dedication
to strengthening the society that I live in.﻿The greatest joy of music is to share it with others. Unfortunately,
the pleasure of performing is often forgotten when players become
more concerned with the technicalities and notes. I also once thought
that I knew all the important keys to successful piano playing: practice,
technique, dedication, and a love for what I do. Focused on the details,
I lost sight of my audience.
During my sophomore year, my friend invited me to join “Music
from the Heart,” a group that showcased its musical talents to senior
citizens. Although I accepted the invitation to support her, I began to
regret my choice as the first performance approached. not knowing
how the seniors would respond to my performance, especially when
I made a mistake, performing before the seniors became a terrifying
thought.
Although my first performance went smoothly, it was hard to know
whether the seniors enjoyed the pieces or the performance. While the
group performed, the seniors would talk to each other, pausing to clap 
at the end of each piece. Trying to impress the audience, I eventually
grew accustomed to preparing a showy piece as the monthly performance
approached.
So used to this monthly routine, I doubted that this performance
would be different from the previous ones when I was ready to perform
my favorite piece one summer day. While waiting for my turn, I glanced
around the room, noting with some uneasiness the growing number of
seniors gathered around the piano. Amidst the crowd of chattering seniors,
one woman’s rapt attention to the performance caught my interest.
She greeted each performer with a wide toothy smile and made a
small comment about the composition. Uncertain of her expectations,
I watched for her reaction when I rose to introduce my piece, “Clair de
Lune” by Claude Debussy.
“Ooh, I love that song,” was all she said in response.
A smile crossed my face when I discovered that she shared my enthusiasm
for the composition. To demonstrate to her how much I enjoyed
the song, I played my best to convey what made this moonlight
song so special to me. My minor concerns on technicalities slowly dissipated
as the song progressed. All that mattered then was playing the
song I loved as well as I could. For the first time, I felt contented with
my performance, undisturbed by mistakes.
The performance was far from perfect. However, none of the seniors
commented that the rhythm was too slow or the notes were wrong
like the audition judges would normally do. Although they still chattered
softly during the performance, they all smiled and clapped. A
few of them would say that the song was lovely. They appreciated my
efforts to entertain them and eagerly asked the group to return soon.
Just the delighted smile on the woman’s face made the performance
worthwhile.
It was the seniors’ appreciation for what I did that brought them
back to the piano each month, and my love for what I did that drew
me to it. The monthly performance was not just a musical showcase; it
was my chance to give back to the community and to help enrich the
seniors’ life. The true joy in my life is not just sharing music, but devoting
myself to community services as a volunteer.﻿Since I have always been interested in science and technology,
I subscribed to many research magazines, including Popular Science
and Scientific American. However, until 10th grade, I never had the opportunity
to contribute to medical research—something that I had always
wanted to do. Then, one day I read an article titled “Print Me a
Pancreas, Please” in Popular Science, which described novel tissue engineering
research involving modification of off-the-shelf inkjet printers
to print out living cells in a “bioink” solution. Having read much about
tissue engineering, I realized this “organ printing” approach could potentially
address problems of traditional tissue engineering methods,
such as the need to precisely place specific cell types in 3D scaffolds.
I was so excited that I came up with a few ideas of my own about advancing
the printer capabilities. I was impelled to contact the researchers
at the Medical University of South Carolina (MUSC) and Clemson
University (CU).
I corresponded with the professor at MUSC and visited his lab
multiple times, but realized that the actual printers were kept at CU.
Therefore, I contacted the researchers at CU, who did not reply to
about 50 of my e-mails. not the one to give up easily, I called the
Principal Investigator (PI) and expressed my eagerness to contribute
to the research. After seeing my resumé and computer-aided designs
(“roadmap to Organ Printing”), he invited me to meet him at his lab on
October 18th, which conflicted with my school’s Homecoming dance.
To my friends’ bewilderment I made the “unpopular” decision to miss
the dance. They could not understand why I preferred driving 26 hours
to meet a researcher and miss all the fun at the once-a-year dance. To
me, this was clearly the right choice. I was trading a great school experience
to literally get my hands into cutting-edge medical research.
The PI was so impressed with my original CAD designs (“roadmap
to Organ Printing”) and my resume that he invited me to research at his
lab. Over Christmas and other school breaks, I learned many laboratory
techniques, conducted novel research, and independently succeeded
in “printing” the first functional 3D branching tube of smooth muscle
cells (a rudimentary blood vessel). This research helped me win many 
science competitions and honors, including 2nd Place in Medicine
and Health at the Intel International Science and Engineering Fair and
become the Top Florida Presenter at the national Junior Science and
Humanities Symposium. My computer-aided designs were published
in Biomaterials Forum and the Journal of Thoracic and Cardiovascular
Surgery.
This remarkable experience inspired me to perform many additional
research projects and I consider it a turning point in my life. It has
increased my passion for research and my determination to be a physician
and work on devices or pharmaceuticals that improve people’s
quality of life. I have also become more confident in my research efforts
and am able to contact any researcher to pursue a position in
their laboratory. I have realized that there are many opportunities for
students like myself to contribute to labs and brainstorm solutions for
current problems.﻿I believe in the power of people. This drives my action and ambitions,
and defines me in a world of cynicism and doubt. I have seen
the power of people and their ability to come together in times of need
and joy and sorrow. I know that ultimately, humans strive for belonging
and community; thus, while loneliness and anger may always be
in existence, so will be togetherness and bliss. My strong faith in humanity
stems from my witnessing of the best in human qualities while
doing the MS150 and during Hurricane Ike, and pushes me to pursue
a career in helping others. Both of these events have allowed me to see
humanity at its best, performing selfless acts of benevolence.
For the past four years, I have participated in the BPMS150 bike
tour from Houston to Austin. This 175 mile ride raises funds for the
national MS Society, which sponsors medical research for multiple sclerosis
and aids the families of its victims. I can say from experience, the
ride is grueling; enormous hills, headwinds, fatigue, and body aches
are prevalent throughout. Yet every year, over thirteen thousand riders
decide to put their minds and bodies through two days of torture so
that they can help those who live with it every day. I have raised, over
four years, more than eight thousand dollars to benefit the MS Society,
and have never regretted any of the painful training or the ride itself.
The view at the starting line is one of the most empowering I have ever 
witnessed: thousands of people, all of them with their hands on their
handle bars, one foot poised on a pedal. All are ready to experience
exhaustion for the benefit of others, like my father. He was diagnosed
with MS when I was four, and is a constant motivator for me. I witnessed
him become blind in one eye, and struggle with a body that refuses
to function normally. I participate in this ride every year for him,
as do thirteen thousand others. The power of people will ultimately
help my father to receive better medical treatment, and maybe even
one day, be cured.
While writing this essay, I was also able to observe and be a part of
amazing human efforts. Hurricane Ike devastated Southeastern Texas,
particularly the Houston and galveston areas. Much of my extended
family lives in galveston, and so was forced to evacuate. Without hesitation,
my parents opened up our home to aunts, uncles, grandparents,
cousins, and pets. This is the environment in which I have always
lived; our home is anyone’s shelter, our food is anyone’s nourishment.
Together, our entire family weathered the storm, and comforted one
another. My aunt’s home received electrical power prior to my home,
and so she eagerly welcomed us to stay with her. Large scale displays
of altruism could be seen in the hundreds of University of Houston
students handing out food and water to those affected by the hurricane.
During times of need, people band together for safety and solace.
Community is instinctual; dismiss the notions of survival of the fittest.
People truly desire closeness with one another.
In the future, I hope to pursue a career in public health. I love
studying science and math, and I would like to use this passion to
benefit large numbers of people. Many go without basic medical treatment,
and this causes a huge discrepancy in quality of life and health in
the population. Even if this problem can never completely be solved,
I want to help remedy this as much as possible. With small deeds and
cooperative effort, humans can accomplish immense good. I know this
because I believe in people, and I have seen them at their finest.﻿“Hello! What’s Your Name?” “Pen-Yuan Hsing.” I see The
Expression, then hear The response: “What?” Starting the first grade in
the US without knowing a single word of English, going back to Taiwan
three years later incapable of recognizing a single Chinese character is
not exactly an ideal circumstance for blending in. For many years, I 
was always the quiet one sitting in the corner, the one who few people
talked to, the one out of the loop. I was the “local alien.”
I opt to join the Earth Science Club during my first year in Lishan
High School, as I always had an interest in astronomy, which happened
to be the focus of that year’s club activities. I didn’t know the weekly
gathering time of our club was also an elective Earth Science course
that students from other high schools could attend. I certainly did not
realize what a big impact this arrangement would have on me.
near the end of the first semester, I was approached by a girl from a
neighboring school who attended this earth science course. She asked
if I wanted to join her on an environmental survey of Taiwan’s Keelung
coast conducted by an organization called Taipei Wetnet. For a moment
I hesitated, I literally had no experience in responding to invitations.
What suddenly came out of my mouth surprised me, “Sure, what
time?”
For the next three years I spent in Taipei Wetnet, I gained not only
a close friend, knowledge about the problems our environment faced,
but perhaps most importantly found a group of people who shared the
same convictions, who are passionate about the same thing, the plight
of our precious planet. A year after being introduced to this organization,
I was its coordinator and presented my first academic paper at an
environmental education conference. I learned that I don’t always have
to be the quiet one in the corner, that I do and can have things to share
with everyone else. I don’t have to fear.
I often think about how I managed to say yes on that fateful day.
Was it just because of a pretty face? Or maybe there has always been a
special part of me that wanted to get out, and she was instrumental in
“flipping the switch.” This eye-opening experience and what I learned
from it is what I desperately want to share with the world.
Perhaps, somewhere out there is another quiet person in the corner
just waiting to be found. A switch waiting to be flipped. You just have
to find it, flip it, and make the world a brighter, warmer place.﻿When my grandmother came to visit five years ago, she
brought me a 3,000 piece jigsaw puzzle. To most, this would not sound
very exciting—it would be almost as bad as a shirt saying “My grandparents
went to India, and all they bought me was this stupid shirt.”
My reaction to the puzzle was different. I cut open the cardboard box
as soon as I could, and poured the pieces out onto my puzzleboard.
I worked patiently on the puzzle for hours at a time, my excitement
building as more and more of the picture was revealed. I cut down my
sleep time until the image of a picturesque forest was complete. The
puzzle overshadowed all else in my life, if only for that short period of
time.
Working on puzzles has helped me gain focus, determination, and
patience. I have learned to apply these qualities to every task I face,
dealing with the outside world in the same fashion as I would a puzzle.
My love for science stems largely from this; science requires the same
logical and levelheaded approach that a puzzle does, and as evidenced 
by the many puzzles decorating my house, this is an approach which
suits my skills and temperament. This intellectual stimulation, coupled
with a desire to discover more about life’s mysteries, compels me to
pursue a career in scientific research.
This summer, I worked in a cardiology laboratory at UCLA, looking
at proteins associated with HDL to understand how atherosclerosis
can be averted. After some experiments provided questionable results,
I was given the task of confirming that the viruses we were working
with had been packaged and identified correctly. I spent weeks running
DnA gels, looking for specific genes in each virus, but my results were
inconsistent. I was frustrated, but instead of giving up on my assignment,
I was even more determined to find an explanation. I considered
every aspect of the experiment, working backwards until I reached the
source—the primers I had used to amplify the DnA were nonspecific
and ineffective, and thus useless in distinguishing the three genes of
interest to us. Knowing this, I was able to alter my experiment accordingly,
looking at protein content instead of DnA sequences. I finally
showed that two of the three viruses were correct; the third, however,
needed to be repackaged. My work was crucial to the undergraduate
student I was working with, because he was able to redesign his experiment
to account for this third virus.
Working in a lab was an exhilarating experience for me. Even though
I gave up lying on the beach to instead play with viruses and chemicals,
the compulsion to understand these proteins inspired and motivated
me. I am tremendously proud of the piece I contributed to the atherosclerosis
puzzle: a small piece, but integral nonetheless. The sense of
accomplishment I felt because of my work in the UCLA lab was much
the same as that which I felt upon completing the 3,000 piece puzzle
my grandmother gave me. This feeling is one I hope to experience
throughout my life, because the atherosclerosis puzzle is most assuredly
not the last such puzzle I will work on.﻿This past summer I had the opportunity to participate in a highly
rigorous academic program at MIT called MITES, Minority Introduction
to Engineering and Science. For six and a half weeks I lived with 68
other rising seniors and college undergrads. Though we were all warned
about how hard the program would be, we were all at the top of our
classes and refused to believe it- after all, who did they think we were?
The first day we sat together in a small auditorium, unaware of each
other and of what lay ahead. We were told that our confidence would
be shattered, our minds blown away, and our lives changed forever.
Still somewhat unmoved, we were not afraid.
By the second week of MITES valedictorians, nerds, bookworms,
and techies alike were leaning on each other’s shoulders at two in the
morning crying over problem sets they had imagined only in nightmares.
It is a well known fact that hard times bring friends closer together,
but I would have never expected for these strangers to become
my best friends, my support system, or even my family. The 16 hours
days I was accustomed to at home did not last long. I was getting an
average of four hours of sleep per night, finishing a book per week,
zooming through subjects once foreign to me, and constructing a semiautonomous
robot from drill motors all at the same time.
We were each enrolled in 5 classes, my schedule consisted of
Introductory Physics, Engineering Design, Chemistry, first year
Calculus, and Humanities. In the month and a half we completed a
semester of Physics and Chemistry each, a full year of Calculus, the material
equivalent to a semester in AP literature, and introductory level
engineering. The work was so intense that when I entered school in the 
fall I enrolled in second year Calculus, and maintained the only A in AP
Physics, having no physics experience prior to MITES.
Since this program I have not been satisfied with the regular coursework
given at my school. I am constantly on the lookout for new programs
to enroll in and other teams, clubs, and groups to join. This
academic school year marks the peak of my involvement in educational
opportunities. I have somehow managed to find time for the
Speech and Debate team, ACE mentoring team, swim team, Science
Bowl team, California Honors Society and Scholarship Federation, Play
Production, Jewish Student Union, gEAr-UP Mentoring Program, and
folklorico dancing.
MITES was the most challenging experience of my life. The program
is the single most pivotal point in my academic endeavors to date.
The assistants we had had all gone through the program and agreed
that even in college at Harvard, MIT, Caltech, and Princeton, nothing
came close. The motivation and encouragement I gained from MITES
has fueled my academic pursuits and pushed me to raise the bar.﻿I trod the mud in the misty spring rain. It was Qing Ming, the
holiday in China when we honored our deceased ancestors. On the
ground of the cemetery, drenched flowers lay in my grandfather’s remembrance.
That morning—a month before my sixth birthday—I
clung tightly to my mother’s sleeves and finally learned why he passed
away.
My grandfather had been a victim of cancer. Because the diagnosis
came too late, all treatment was futile. As my mother whispered this to
me with grief in her eyes, I stomped angrily in the mud. I blamed the
doctors who couldn’t find the tumor in time to save him. That rainy
morning launched my dream to help cure cancer—a common wish,
but one that fueled a life-changing pursuit. Knowing that the best pro-
tection against cancer was to detect it as early as possible, I examined
the widely used methods of detection. I read about mammography and
was astounded to learn that it failed to detect a large percentage of
cases. As I wondered how to make detection more accurate, I heard
about a research internship program at ____ Cancer Center. I jumped
at the opportunity.
There, my mentors encouraged me to investigate cancer’s genetic
causes. I became intrigued by a gene suspected to play a role in the
onset of breast cancer. We examined a process of gene-silencing—
known as methylation—that changed DnA structure while keeping
the sequence itself intact. Through a series of assays, we pinpointed
the methylated sites in the gene sequence that distinguished cancerous
breast cells from healthy cells. These were markers of disease!
The thrill came from knowing the vast clinical applications of the
discovery. Finding such markers is a step toward the individualization
of cancer treatment. genomics-based diagnostics would detect cancer
earlier than traditional procedures. Also, since methylation does not
change the DnA sequence, it is reversible. Therapeutics could target
these sites and minimize harm to healthy tissue.
Personalized cancer diagnostics promise a new dawn, but they are
not yet reality. Many more genes need to be studied before we can fully
comprehend the roots of the disease. Awed by the complexity of cancer,
I realized that my dream was much more intricate than I imagined.
However, my youthful passion in medicine did not dwindle. Instead,
it strengthened and matured into a strategy. As my vague goals shaped
into specific inquiries, my curiosity became insatiable. The joy of uncovering
the unknown affirmed my love for science. My generation will
keep pushing the boundaries of knowledge, and nothing would give
me more fulfillment than continuing to fight in the war on cancer.
I recall that rainy Qing Ming morning when I gazed at my grandfather’s
gravesite. I wish I could tell him about the adventure he inspired.
This war will be arduous, but every little “eureka!” along the way is a
portent of victory.
﻿“Rosencrantz and Guildenstern are dead” IS an astounding,
intellectually challenging, and humorous concoction. Stoppard
cleverly captures the characters of Hamlet, written by Shakespeare, but
creates somewhat of a comic tragedy. Clearly an oxymoron, but profoundly
effective. The play focuses on the story of Hamlet, but from the
viewpoint of rosencrantz and guildenstern, and it also takes the theories
proposed in Hamlet and presents them in a comic, rather than sullen,
manner. One of the most humorous scenes is when rosencrantz,
or guildenstern, since the distinction is never truly made between
the two, is laying on a table and thinking to himself what it is like
to be “dead in a box.” This scene proves to be hilarious, despite its
deep meaning, and parallels the infamous “To be, or not to be” speech
in Hamlet. Life’s unanswerable questions are constantly being asked
throughout the play, but by inserting these dubious inquiries within
a comedy, Stoppard is able to captivate and preserve his audience’s attention.
In fact, the humor provides the wiring, which connects the 
messages of the play to our own chaotic existences. This brilliant literary
work captures the essence of a tragedy within a comedy, something
only few authors can accomplish. It is able to provide profound, theoretical
ideas that have long been questioned into a comic perspective,
and yet keep its integrity.﻿July 22 last year was meant to be a typical Sunday. Just like every
Sunday, my mother and I were getting ready to visit my older brother at
his Waikiki apartment, where we would talk for a little while. But July
22nd was different. That chilly morning, we got a phone call from his
roommate telling us my brother was going to the emergency room. As
we drove to Queen’s Hospital, I didn’t know what to think. Although
I tried to assure myself that nothing serious could have happened to
him, anxiety clouded my mind.
My brother, Tyson, emigrated from vietnam with my mom and my
other older brother to the United States in 1990, with dreams of a new
life and fresh opportunities. He enrolled in high school with virtually
no knowledge of the English language. Even though he had to simultaneously
manage a part-time job at McDonald’s, he excelled in academics
and was the top of his class in calculus.
At 34 years old, he was the epitome of health: he ran marathons every
year, had a healthy diet, and never smoked or drank alcohol. When
I got to the Er and saw him lying in the hospital bed, he looked like
the Tyson that I always knew. nothing seemed wrong. He just seemed
tired, and he didn’t have the energy to speak.
However, coming back from an MrI scan, my brother seemed different.
His eyes were unfocused and dazed, as if he didn’t see the room
in front of him. Uneasiness and fear rushed down my spine. I shouted
for help, just as my brother’s body started to spasm. I felt a profound
emotion surging up in me, one that I had never experienced before--a
wrenching sense of trepidation, laced with sickening adrenaline. The
seizure took control of his body, and he began to foam at the mouth.
His body seized up, but I was frozen still. I didn’t know what to do. I
felt useless and terrified.
Tyson told me, when I was just a kid, not to work while I was in
high school. I was young, though, and still wanted to work because I
wanted to make money, like him. During his high school years, he took
on a part-time job after school, even though it meant he had to come
home late every night. Often, he would stay up through the early hours
of the morning, determined to complete his schoolwork. He held down 
the job, despite its exhausting physical toll, because he had to: he had
to assist with the bills and support my mom, so that she could take
English classes at the local community college. Tyson said that I didn’t
have to work, because he would always be there to support me.
While my brother was in the hospital, my mother and I went there
every day from before dawn to late at night, when the streets were empty.
Tyson had developed severe brain inflammation as a result of the
seizure. He had dozens of tests done: X-rays, MrIs, blood tests, spinal
taps, a bronchoscopy, and even a brain biopsy. A labyrinth of Iv tubes,
wires, and cables were hooked up to his body, monitoring his life signs
and feeding dozens of chemicals and solutions into his bloodstream.
The doctors kept him constantly sedated. His brain inflammation was
life-threatening, and he caught a case of severe pneumonia. His doctors
had to place him on life support. In three weeks, my brother had
gone from being in the best shape of his life, from being a veritable
Superman, to laying on his deathbed.
When I was a kid, I was a crybaby. I cried when I didn’t get the toy
I wanted. I cried when I didn’t get the food I wanted. However, at some
point during my childhood, around the age of six, I stopped crying.
no matter how much I was teased or pushed around, I never cried. no
matter how much I was mocked about my clothes, or my ethnicity, I
didn’t cry.
August 11 last year was the first time since childhood that I cried.
It was the day that my brother passed away. And it was the first time
that I ever saw my mom cry. It was a traumatizing experience, and for
a while I was depressed that such a tragedy could occur so arbitrarily
to someone like my brother: someone who was strong, someone who
was healthy, someone who lived by a strong moral code and never sacrificed
his values for material rewards. But after a while, I realized that
the circumstances of his death were not a refutation of his beliefs, but
instead, a reminder of their importance. Even though we cannot control
the twists and turns of life, we must deal with them as best we can.
My brother, even though he didn’t know English, enrolled in school
and ultimately excelled. And at the same time, to help our mother go to
school on the side, he took on a part-time job. Certainly he must have
wished that he hadn’t faced those disadvantages, but he didn’t complain.
rather, he faced the realities of his situation head-on, and succeeded.
Tyson’s death was a tragic reflection of the cold, random chance 
of nature, but it was in no way any verdict on his philosophy: instead,
I realized, it served as a clear reminder to me that the worst can happen
to even the best, and that the strength of an individual lies in his
ability to maintain his values when faced with such difficult situations.
Today, I still hold onto the lessons that my brother taught me through
his actions: to put the needs of your family first, to always persevere
in the face of adversity, and to never compromise your ideals for petty
desires. To lose heart in these values because of his death, then, would
be a harsh disservice to Tyson’s legacy. E v e r y   t i m e   I   d r i v e   i n t o   a   c l i e n t  s   d r i v e w a y ,   t h e r e  s   a l w a y s   t h a t   m o m e n t .  
 T h a t   m o m e n t   w h e r e   I   m u s t   s h e d   a n y   d o u b t   I   h a v e   a n d   b e c o m e  
 a d a m a n t .   T h a t   m o m e n t   w h e r e   I   r e a l i z e   t h a t ,   p e o p l e   a r e   d e p e n d i n g   o n  
 m e ,   a n d   I   m u s t   d o   m y   b e s t   t o   h e l p   t h e m .   A n d   t h a t   m o m e n t   w h e r e ,   w i t h  
 t o o l   b a g   t o   m y   s i d e ,   I   m u s t   p r e p a r e   t o   f a c e   w h a t e v e r   p r o b l e m   i s   w a i t i n g  
 f o r   m e   i n   t h e i r   h o u s e .   T h i s   t i m e   i s   n o   d i f f e r e n t .   A s   w i t h   t h e   h u n d r e d s  
 o f   o t h e r   p r o b l e m s   I  v e   f a c e d ,   I   m u s t   r e m e m b e r   t h a t   e v e r y   p r o b l e m   h a s  
 a   s o l u t i o n ,   a n d   I   c a n   f i n d   i t .  
 W h e n   I   a m   g r e e t e d   b y   a   m i d d l e - a g e d   w o m a n   a s   I   a p p r o a c h   t h e  
 h o u s e ,   m y   r e m a i n i n g   d o u b t s   e v a p o r a t e .   O n c e   I   s e e   t h e   i n d i v i d u a l   I   a m  
 a b o u t   t o   h e l p   I   b e c o m e   s a t u r a t e d   w i t h   r e s o l v e .   H o w e v e r ,   a l l   s h e   w i l l   s e e  
 f r o m   m e   i s   a   s m i l e   a s   I   a s k   h e r   h o w   s h e   i s .   I   t h e n   a s k   h e r   w h a t   t h e   p r o b l e m  
 i s ,   a n d   s h e   l e a d s   m e   t o   h e r   c o m p u t e r .   S h e   t e l l s   m e   t h a t   h e r   c o m p u t e r  
 i s   s h u t t i n g   d o w n   r a n d o m l y ,   a n d   t h e n   l e a v e s   a s   I   b e g i n   t o   w o r k .  
 W i t h   a   s i m p l e   p u s h   o f   t h e   p o w e r   b u t t o n ,   t h e   p r o c e s s   b e g i n s .  
 U n f o r t u n a t e l y ,   f o r   t h i s   c a s e ,   j u s t   a s   q u i c k l y   a s   i t   s t a r t s  t h e   c o m p u t e r    
 s h u t s   o f f .   n e v e r   d i s c o u r a g e d ,   I   d i s m a n t l e   i t   t o   l o o k   f o r   o b v i o u s   s i g n s  
 o f   d a m a g e .   H o w e v e r ,   e v e r y t h i n g   h e r e   a p p e a r s   n o r m a l :   w i r e s   s e c u r e ,  
 c i r c u i t s   s h i n i n g .  
 B u t   t h e r e  s   a n o t h e r   t e s t   t h a t   m a y   w o r k .   E y e s   f o c u s e d   o n   t h e   i n s i d e  
 o f   t h e   c o m p u t e r ,   I   t u r n   i t   o n   a g a i n .   I   h a v e   o n l y   a   m o m e n t   b e f o r e   i t   s u c c u m b s  
 t o   i t s   a i l m e n t   a g a i n .   A d d i t i o n a l l y ,   e a c h   t i m e   i t   s t a r t s   c o u l d   b e  
 d a m a g i n g ,   s o   I   h a v e   t o   m a k e   t h i s   c o u n t .   W h e n   t h e   s o u n d   o f   e l e c t r i c i t y  
 s u r g i n g   t h r o u g h   t h e   c o m p u t e r   b e g i n s ,   I   i m m e d i a t e l y   n o t i c e   a   v i t a l   f a n  
 f a i l i n g   t o   t w i r l :   t h e   c o m p u t e r   i s   s i m p l y   o v e r h e a t i n g .   W i t h   a   q u i c k   p u l l  
 o f   t h e   p o w e r   I   a n e s t h e t i z e   t h e   c o m p u t e r   a n d   o p e r a t e .   U s i n g   a   r e p l a c e m e n t  
 a n d   s c r e w d r i v e r   f r o m   m y   b a g ,   I   g i v e   t h e   c o m p u t e r   a   n e w   f a n .  
 T h e n ,   I   s t a r t   t h e   c o m p u t e r   n e r v o u s l y ,   b u t   i t   s t a r t s   p e r f e c t l y .  
 M y   c o n f i d e n c e   a n d   d e t e r m i n a t i o n   s w e a t   o f f   a s   a c c o m p l i s h m e n t .   I  
 q u i c k l y   l o o k   f o r   t h e   w o m a n .   S h e   c a n   t e l l   I   s o l v e d   h e r   p r o b l e m   a s   I   w a l k  
 t o w a r d s   h e r   w i t h   a   g r i n ,   a n d   s h e   s m i l e s   t o o .  
 T h i s   c a s e   i s   o n e   o f   t h e   h u n d r e d s   I  v e   s o l v e d   o v e r   t h e   p a s t   f e w   y e a r s ,  
 a l l   w i t h o u t   a   s i n g l e   f a i l u r e   t o   f i n d   a   p r a c t i c a l   s o l u t i o n .   I   s t a r t e d   m y  
 b u s i n e s s   b e c a u s e   a f t e r   s e e i n g   h o w   g r o s s l y   o v e r c h a r g e d   t h e   c o m m u n i t y  
 w a s   b y   c o r p o r a t e   t e c h n i c i a n s ,   I   b e l i e v e d   i t   w o u l d   b e   a   p r a c t i c a l   a n d  
 g r e a t   w a y   f o r   m e   t o   h e l p   t h e   c o m m u n i t y   a n d   h a v e   a   j o b .   A f t e r   f i x i n g  
 c o m p u t e r s   f o r   m y   s c h o o l   f o r   a   y e a r ,   s c h o o l   o f f i c i a l s   q u i c k l y   n o t i c e d   a n d  
 s p r e a d   w o r d   o f   m y   w o r k ,   a l l o w i n g   m y   b u s i n e s s   t o   s p r e a d   l i k e   w i l d f i r e  
 t h r o u g h o u t   t h e   l o c a l   c o m m u n i t i e s .   W i t h   d e t e r m i n a t i o n   ( a n d   s o m e   c r e a t i v i t y )  
 I  v e   s o l v e d   s o m e   v e r y   u n o r d i n a r y   a n d   s t r a n g e   p r o b l e m s .   I  d   l i k e  
 t o   u s e   t h i s   s a m e   w i l l p o w e r   t o   h e l p   p e o p l e   i n   e v e n   b e t t e r   w a y s .   n o   m a t t e r  
 h o w   i m p o s s i b l e   t h e   p r o b l e m s   I   e n c o u n t e r   m a y   s e e m   I   w i l l   a l w a y s  
 r e m e m b e r   w h a t   I   t e l l   m y s e l f   w h e n   I   f i x   c o m p u t e r s :   e v e r y   p r o b l e m   m u s t  
 h a v e   a   s o l u t i o n ,   a n d   I   c a n   f i n d   i t .﻿Part of me is missing. It's an identifiable, yet indescribable absence.
It is odd how I can find more information about the initial supposed
creators, Adam and Eve, than I can about my own. I don’t know
my father, and I doubt that I ever will. He left two weeks after I was
born because I lacked a certain male member. Fidelity to personal convictions
was more important to him than a life that he had just shepherded
into this world. Because of his definitive choice, I will only be
able to associate with him as a support check number until I am eighteen
years of age. After that, who knows?
When I was eleven, my mother decided to call this long-gone man
in search of owed child support. After eleven years of nothingness,
financial distress caused my mother call this absolute last resource. In
my house, we had an early 90s telephone that had a speaker/mute
function. I can still see that outdated piece of technology in the corner
of my mind. That speaker/mute function granted me the only contact
with my father that I have ever known.
I was a mischievous child; I knew that day that my mother was
physically on the phone with my birthfather. I was naïve. I thought
that hearing my father’s voice would fill the void created by years of
absence. I thought that hearing his voice would allow me to place my
father on the same grand plateau as other fathers who had always been
there for their children, loved their children. I snuck into the room
with the technical phone and silently listened in on the conversation. I
felt smart and sly as I pressed the button that put the stranger’s voice on
the speakerphone. “Hah,” I thought, “he can’t hear me, but I can hear
him.” Maybe if he would have known the simple fact that his daughter
was listening, maybe then some shred of human decency would have
shined through.
Those few moments provided me with the only ounce of a man that
comprises half of my biology that I will ever know. Unfortunately, the
stranger didn’t know I was listening. Like my life before, he never knew
that I was there. As he yelled at my mother, I could hear the fear in her
voice as he responded to her pleas with such malice. My mother tried
to convey to my father that I was not just his incarnation to be provided
for, but rather, a spectacular human being. As I sat there, listening intently
to the conversation, I felt validated as a daughter by my mother’s
words, but shattered as a human being by my “father’s” insolence.
In the moments that followed, that little girl, initially so excited
at the prospect of finally being able to physically hear her creator,
was eternally crushed. “Just because she exists doesn’t mean I have
to love her; it doesn’t mean I have to know her. I don’t love her, and
I never will.” Crash. Is it possible for the strongest muscle in your
body to simply break in half? One of my genetic halves had declared
that he loathed my very existence. Those words succeeded to shatter
my heart into a million pieces. I didn’t know how to react. I turned
off the phone and slithered back to my room. How could someone
be so heartless? How could someone that heartless be a part of me?
no words.
I have been sobered by pain in a way that no psychological study
ever could attempt. I may never know my father because of his decision,
and in turn, he will never know me. In the end, his loss will be
the greater one. My “father’s” shining example of misconduct ironically
guides me as a moral, ethical person. rather than searching for any
fault within myself, I use my father’s failure as a tool. I take an earnest 
and honest stance in life. I know my great worth. I have nothing to
prove to anyone, including myself.﻿My family has taken living in the big city as a reason for why
we should never give up. Here in Los Angeles there are countless individuals
and families along all points on the immigration spectrum from
recent arrivals to recent citizenship. residing in this great city has provided
me with diversity, opportunity, acceptance, and an abundance of
role models to follow through all troubles- big and small.
I always thought that I had it the worst out of all my family members
because I was never allowed to get anything lower than what my
brother or a cousin had gotten in a class. My parents figured if they
could do it, so could I, and if not on my own then with a little of their
help. It was not until recently that I realized the truth in this. In my
short life I have seen my father go from speaking no English, to excelling
in it. I have heard countless stories about migrant farmers such as
Cesar Chavez and my grandfather who had nearly nothing, yet persisted
and succeeded.
growing up hearing these stories of great injustices and misfortunes
has truly influenced my long term goals. I am going to go far because
there is no excuse for not doing my best, given all I have been blessed 
with. When I had trouble speaking Spanish and felt like abandoning
my native tongue I remembered my mother and how when she came
to the United States she was forced to wash her mouth out with soap
and endure beatings with a ruler by the nuns at her school for speaking
it. When I couldn’t figure out tangents, sines, and cosines I thought
about my father and how it took him nearly a year to learn long division
because he was forced to teach it to himself after dropping out and
starting to work in the 4th grade. And when I wanted to quit swimming
because I was tired I remembered my grandfather and how no matter
how his muscles ached if he stopped digging, or picking fruit, or
plowing he risked not having enough food to feed his family. Pursuing
technical fields such as math and engineering first seemed like work for
men to me, but the times have changed. All these people, just from my
family have been strong role models for me.
I feel that being labeled “underprivileged” does not mean that I am
limited in what I can do. There is no reason for me to fail or give up,
and like my parents and grandparents have done, I’ve been able to pull
through a great deal. My environment has made me determined, hard
working, and high aiming. I would not like it any other way. This is
how my Hispanic heritage, family upbringing, and role models have
influenced my academic and personal long term goals.﻿I wish I was invisible. I wish I was invisible. I wish I was invisible.
One of my biggest fears has always been going to an unfamiliar place,
but each time I have had the satisfaction of knowing that at the end of
the day I can go home. I am a shy person, and it has always been difficult
for me to adjust to a new environment. Transitioning from eighth
grade to high school was especially difficult for me because my high
school was, in fact, a boarding school, which meant that that feeling of
satisfaction was no longer present at the end of the day but postponed
to the end of the week. Living at LFA was a completely new world for
me and nothing I had experienced could have prepared me for it.
With confused eyes and nothing less than a nauseous sensation in
my stomach I entered my first day of high school. growing up, I had always
gone to school with people who looked like me, sounded like me,
and dressed liked me, but here I quickly learned that I was the minority.
I was not alone in this. Two of my friends came to LFA with me and,
with this in mind, my shyness and I did not think it necessary to make
new friends. Besides being one of the only schools with its own ice rink
and providing only the latest technology for its students, it suddenly
hit me that my new home had countless possibilities, but, before those
possibilities could be realized, I had to take initiative. I learned a very
important lesson at LFA: you will only get out of life as much as you
put into it. Stepping out of my comfort zone allowed me to discover an
interest and skill for volleyball and hidden leadership as the captain of
the Jv team. I became a tutor and friend for young Hispanic students 
at the nuestro Center, and they reminded me how important it is to
give back to the community. After numerous all nighters, I developed
a system where I could get all of my homework done and still be able
to get involved with sports and extracurriculars without having to sacrifice
any sleep time.
Towards the end of my sophomore year a family member’s sickness
unfortunately forced me to leave my school and return home. I left LFA
and joined my new family, Mirta ramirez Computer Science Charter
High School. Containing a student body that was 99 percent Hispanic,
I was no longer the minority. I had unconsciously become accustomed
to the LFA way of life because, in my mind, this tiny mustard yellow
building with no more than four windows could not possibly compare
to my old home. I was right. no, my new home was not as big nor as
fancy, but I discovered that was not a setback. Although the resources
were not directly visible nor as easily accessible, I learned that obstacles
did not exist for students there. Most, if not all, of the students had the
same hunger for knowledge as I had.
This summer my school announced that the building which we had
been using had fire code violations and we could not return to our
building in the fall. Throughout the summer my school did not have
a building and did not find one until a few weeks after school started.
By that time I had already taken a decision to, once again, leave my
home and join yet another family. What I realized on my first day at
Josephinum Academy, was that my shyness had not tagged along and
I was eager to go to school. The nauseous feeling had left my stomach
and enthusiasm had entered. I had already gained and learned so much
from the people I had met in my two previous schools that I could not
wait to continue my journey and embark on yet another discovery.
The knowledge that I have gained from these three schools is something
I will take with me far beyond college. My roommate, across-thehall
mates, and classmates have influenced my life as much as I hope
to have impacted theirs. It is evident to me that they have helped me
develop into the very much visible person I am today. I have learned to
step outside of my comfort zone, and I have learned that diversity is so
much more than the tint of our skin. My small mustard colored school
taught me that opportunity and success only requires desire.
I would be an asset to your college because as I continue on my
journey to success, I will take advantage of every opportunity that is 
available to me and make sure to contribute as much as I can too.
now I am visible. now I am visible. now I am visible, and I want to
be seen.﻿Growing up with seperated parents has not been the easiest
life, but it has been my life. When I was younger, I’d hate going out to
eat with my dad and seeing a family of four happily enjoying a meal.
If my mother and father ever went out together to a restaurant, it was
with me, once a year for my birthday, and was usually interspersed
with various disagreements.
It was when I was in first grade that I began to realize that, although
my parents had their differences and no longer loved each other, I was
the one thing that united them. I had no basis to be envious of what I
thought of as “complete” families.
Both my mother and father, wanting the best for me, recognized
early on my love and fascination with all things scientific. They worked
to create opportunities for me to pursue my interest. My mother would
read at bedtime, at my request, nature field guides instead of nursery
rhymes. The two of us often made long journeys at 3:00 A.M. to witness
meteor showers in the clear skies of the mountains. She encouraged me
to set up experiments around the house, which I happily did—measuring
the growth of palm tree saplings and dissecting owl pellets to
extract the mouse bones inside. An environmental scientist, my father
could not wait to transfer all of his scientific knowledge into my young
head. needless to say, many of his spontaneous lectures were far above
my grasp—I still vaguely remember a quantum physics talk he gave me
when I was eight—but they inspired me to learn more on my own.
My thirst for scientific knowledge grew over the years, without
limits in any one specific area. Then, in January four years ago, my 
Aunt Diane died after a five-year battle with breast cancer. It was during
my aunt’s illness that I realized I could use my natural love of science to
benefit others facing similar challenges.
I have continually pushed myself closer to this goal by excelling in
my AP science classes, studying biotechnology at UC Davis through the
COSMOS program, and competing as a member of my school’s Science
Bowl Team. This past summer, I had the opportunity to intern at the
reijo Pera Lab at Stanford University through the Stanford Institutes of
Medicine Summer research Program. During this two-month internship,
I worked with human embryonic stem cells to explore the function
of PrDM1, a potentially-useful gene in the creation of regenerative
medicines.
The scientific spark my parents recognized years ago has shaped my
life, and with it, I wish to shape the lives of others. I aspire to become a
biomedical researcher, a career that harnesses my long-time fascination
of science and my commitment to improve the quality of life for those
facing medical challenges. It would be a privilege to work alongside
scientists, exploring new treatments and technologies to create exciting
new options for patients and their families.﻿I have always been comfortable with Tae Kwon Do, music,
art, and friends. However, as a horse in Chinese astrology, I also need
to explore different pursuits, and step outside of my comfort zone. This
summer, I ventured beyond the pasture of my comfort zone, and participated
onstage in the high school summer musical for the first time.
The biggest challenge of taking this leap was overcoming my own
mental barrier—the sign that read, Jean, you have never had a dance
lesson; you have no idea how to sing or act. Out of fear that I would
feel uncomfortable, I believed that playing violin in the pit orchestra
was my calling. However, after three years of pit orchestra experience, I
longed to shine in that coveted spotlight. I did not tell my friends about
how I wondered what it would feel like to act onstage in front of eight
hundred people. When I saw that the title of the musical for this past
summer was Anything goes, I knew that no one would think worse
of me for following my aspirations. Confident that my friends would
encourage me, I let go of my cautious Chinese approach to life, and let
the free-spirited horse within me escape.
Despite my decision to participate in the musical, I was terrified. I
wondered whether I would meet any friends and if I would be able to
learn to sing and dance well. My fears were intensified because I missed
the first week of rehearsals while at a leadership conference in new
York City. When I attended my first rehearsal, arriving directly from
new York City, my fortitude kept me steady. With confidence and new
York City memories in my heart, I joined the rest of the cast and reveled
in the excitement. I followed my new friends with a passion for an art
form that I hardly knew, but willingly embraced.
From that moment on, I was a horse freely cantering around an
open meadow. I had discovered a new point of view, and the grass was 
greener than it had ever seemed. Some days, I came home with new
dance steps to show my parents. On other days, I drew the designs of
my costumes when my descriptions at the dinner table would not suffice.
The make-up artist tried three times to find the right blush, while
the hair team created a different style for me each night. Having to
think up a new hairstyle each time was parallel to my shifting opinion
of my life and self. Although participating in the musical was initially
petrifying, I discovered that taking such a risk was the optimal way to
grow and change.
now, I will not shy away from being in a musical cast because my
comfort zone is expanding. Soon it will encompass the grand scope
of my interests: from singing and dancing to throwing a sales pitch
in front of judges; from learning how to execute precision front-flips
to building my favorite piano repertoire; from designing a webpage
to arranging chamber music, or developing optics technologies. Such
passions will continue to define who I am and what I hope to achieve.
My character is being shaped and reshaped by my learning experiences
because I am an impressionable human being. As I continue to explore,
I know that my interests will solidify into a cohesive whole. Until then,
I seek to enrich myself with new opportunities and never look back.
Every family has its culture, all with aspects that brings them
together or drive them apart. I come from a Mexican family, where family
is the only thing we know. We share each other’s pain and misery
and we rejoice for our miracles. We learn and grow through each other. 
Even through the darkest days we survive as one. I witnessed those
dark days, but I also saw the bright and through it all I evolved into
who I am today.
I encountered one of my biggest obstructions when I was a child. I
was born into a family that had immigrated to America from Mexico.
Although my parents had been in the country for quite some time, they
never adapted to the American lifestyle. All I knew was Spanish and
my first year of school would soon come. I would sit at the end of my
driveway and listen to the variety of sounds that slowly crept into my
ear, triggered a reaction and sent confusion running through my mind.
Day after day, I would sit there trying to decode this puzzle word by
word and the day came when I’d be shipped off to school where I was
expected to know English. Kindergarten was one of the hardest years
in my life. I struggled tremendously. I was the last one to know my address,
I was the last one to know my phone number, and I was the one
who almost failed his first year of school. If it wasn’t for my father not
allowing the school to hold me back, I could have become a completely
different person. I struggled throughout my years in elementary school.
I went to resource and received help with my schoolwork until fourth
grade. I was given a big push forward and since then I have come to
realize that I may not be the only one in need. Others will need help
and I will be there with a helping hand.
Through the years, my family has undergone a variety of obstacles.
I saw my brother completely stumble and fall when he impregnated
his girlfriend at the age of sixteen. At the blink of an eye he became a
father to be and a husband. Everything came to a halt and he needed to
support another person. He worked during the night and finished high
school during the day. He struggled even while living at home. As if one
example in my house wasn’t enough, my sister was expecting a child
during her senior year. I remember the day when she told my parents, I
was in the room next door crying in pain because she fell into the same
trap my brother did. That was the end for her. She graduated from high
school and began to work. now she has two daughters and is trying to
make a living. It is hard to see the people you love make mistakes. It
is so hard, that it brings tears to my eyes, to know that you wish you
could say everything will be ok. They are stuck in a rut and I am putting
my best foot forward to give myself the future they don’t have.
When my mother was a child she had suffered a great amount. She
had become deaf in her teenage years. She lost complete ability to hear
in her right ear and partially in the left and to add to all the confusion
she was bound by a language. She was living in America with 4 of 5
senses and a tongue that many could not speak. Many would see this
as a huge dent in her life, but she managed to start a family. I could not
be any more proud of her and thankful for what she has given me. Her
“disability” placed a tremendous amount of pressure on my shoulders.
She was not able to go to the deli or to place phone calls when she
needed to. All of a sudden, all of this had become my responsibility. My
father was too busy breaking his back in order to support our family.
My mother’s personal translator, doesn’t sound too shabby? Standing
in the middle of the store, making hand jesters, mouthing out words,
or even yelling, does attract attention. In those moments I would feel
a surge of heat rush from head to toe, goose bumps in every possible
crevice of my body, and to top it all off I’d be seven shades darker than a
ripe tomato. Shame and embarrassment, how could I feel this way? All
this had become routine and the pain and embarrassment finally started
to subside, a whole new feeling started to emerge, pride. My mother
made me strong. She allowed me to become the man I am today. And
after all the pain there are still countless nights that I lie in bed, crying
due to the burden that was placed on her and the tremendous lesson I
learned. Every sound, every beat, every photon, every little everything
has been absorbed into me one way or another, yet these experiences,
although insignificant to others, mean to world to me. All these events
run through my veins and pump through my heart. I am the passion
that is rarely seen. I am the walking story of struggle.
I consider myself to be mature and focused in my life; I have
goals that I strive for and a strong commitment to my education.
However, I do have my more humorous moments, just as everyone
else. For instance, a few summers ago, my family and I were in Las
vegas on vacation. The over-the-top looking-by-night, eyesore-by-day
city was lighted everywhere, and masses of people were walking along
the Las vegas Strip. One night, we went out to dinner and were walking
back to our hotel. When we got to the entrance of the hotel, which
had automatic sliding doors, there was a huge line waiting to get in,
yet there were many other doors to its side unoccupied. So, naturally,
I said aloud, “Why don’t we just go through those doors,” as I pointed
towards the unoccupied doors. My family just waited patiently, but I
decided to go by myself, so I did, and I walked straight into the EXIT
door. I am not sure who was more injured, myself, or my sister who
collapsed onto the floor in convulsive laughter. I still have not heard
the end of this story, but at least now I can laugh at myself. Many times 
people get discouraged in their hectic and stress-filled lives, but sometimes
you just need a dim-witted accident to occur to put everything
in perspective.
Crime scene report
Crime: Missing Person
Location: Duke University, 2138 Campus Drive, Box 90586, Durham,
North Carolina 27708-0586
Time: October 2, 2008, 11:00 A.M.
Investigated by: Admissions Officers of Duke University
Case DescriptioN:
On the morning of October 2, 2008, at precisely 7:00 A.M., a Miss
Lauren Sanders began to worry. Her future-self entered the gates of a
prestigious university in the fall of 2009 and had not returned home.
Miss Sanders filed a missing person’s report, hoping someone could
help her to locate her future-self in a world of possibilities.
The case began with a grueling interrogation of Miss Lauren Sanders,
the person who knew most about her future-self. However, the questioning
session yielded little information. Miss Sanders could not fully
describe herself in the future. Pressured, she stated that “she has the
ambition to fulfill all of her goals, is both stubborn and industrious,
and wants to experience University life.” Miss Sanders lacked a photograph
of her future-self, but remarked that “she has brown hair, likes to
describe herself as vertically-challenged, and is usually smiling.”
nOTE: While unable to describe her future-self, Miss Sanders believed
that examination of past experiences could possibly assist the admissions
officers in the case. According to Miss Sanders, her future-self
has “volunteered in her community and traveled on a global scale.”
Physical evidence collected during a thorough search of Miss
Sander’s bedroom included a Dell laptop, a collection of Jane Austin
novels, worn textbooks, and an I-pod. Fingerprinting analysis and DnA
processing determined that these items belong to both Miss Sanders
and her future-self, and that they use these items frequently. Despite
biological traces of the future-self found within the home, laboratory
analysis concluded that Miss Sanders’ future-self does not reside within
her hometown.
With information gathered from the physical search of Miss Sanders’
home and Miss Sanders’ interrogation, a database search was conducted
to determine possible universities in which Miss Sanders’ future-self
resided. Within minutes, Duke University appeared as a match.
With this lead, authorities conducted numerous searches at Duke
University in Durham, north Carolina, probing the dorms, library, and
classrooms. All searches yielded nothing, yet the possibility of finding
Miss Sanders’ future-self remains strong. Professors and students alike,
when questioned about Miss Sanders’ future-self, strongly believe that
many individuals like her come to the University to find their potential
paths.
Further examination will be needed to complete this investigation,
including a thorough inspection of Miss Sanders’ resume and letters of
recommendation. Hopefully, the leads that we have will direct us to the
whereabouts of her future-self.
NOTE: According to Miss Sanders, the future-self plans to travel
on a foreign-exchange student program and hopes to conduct research
in one of the many labs available to undergraduates. At present, these
areas have not been searched by professionals.
On the morning of October 2, 2009, at precisely 7:04 A.M., the
admissions officers found Miss Lauren Sanders’ future-self at Duke
University. She had hidden in the incoming student body.
After spending a week with John Nash, I may have stumbled
upon a central purpose of my life. Well, not nobel Laureate John nash
himself, but whenever I describe Fred, their characteristics seem quite
parallel. Fred is unique, possessing an indomitable spirit to fulfill his
dreams without fear of failure. not only is he the most brilliant young
man I have ever met, he exhibits a genuinely compassionate heart. Sadly,
many people may never recognize Fred as the beautiful individual that
he is, or what he has to offer. While our society may call him “challenged,”
I have come to recognize him as an unexpected role model.
For Fred, you see, is autistic. He does not interact well with people, and
is often unable to express his thoughts clearly or articulately. He doesn’t
understand why people laugh at him. Yet even so, Fred is blessed with
an acute sense of purpose and caring that is unmatched by most—including
perhaps even the most altruistic among us.
Several years ago I traveled with a small group of Fairfax County
high school students to Portland, Oregon to compete as a Finalist in
the Intel International Science and Engineering Fair. I was excited at
what was certain to be an experience of a lifetime—having no clue that
the most valuable lesson would come not from the Science Fair itself,
but from Fred. Because of my prior experiences in working with special
needs children, the school administrators asked me to room with
Fred during the trip. I distinctly recall my initial anxiety and reluctance
about the prospect of taking care of another individual during the
stressful, high-pressure atmosphere of the competition. In retrospect,
though, this was the beginning of an incredible journey for both of
us—but especially for me.
Fred’s passion—actually more of an obsession—is theoretical mathematics.
He eats, breathes, talks, and probably sleeps mathematics, to
the point where he annoys others by his constant chatter about it. His
idea of fun is solving differential equations on a napkin in a fancy restaurant,
oblivious to others wanting to socialize or relax. That Fred is
brilliant is unquestioned, a fact that was clearly evidenced in his science
project where he solved a math problem previously believed by
experts to be insolvable. Yet in his own mind Fred firmly believed his
entire raison d’etre in life was the pursuit of math—and that he was
destined to use his incredible mathematical ability to help make the
world better.
However, Fred’s disabilities were only a fraction of the challenges
that faced him. growing up in a dysfunctional home, he suffered from a
lack of love and patient understanding. Still, Fred’s life revolved around
his relationships and mathematics. Although he has few close friends,
people are indescribably important to him, and he always treated them
with sensitivity and compassion. Unfortunately, some people—including
but not limited to his peers (who can sometimes be quite cruel)—
are unable to set aside their prejudices long enough to see his uniqueness
as the incredible gift that it is. His enthusiasm and his indomitable
spirit in the face of adversity taught me valuable lessons—lessons I will
carry with me for the rest of my life. He taught me to live for what you
truly cherish, to be passionate about your dreams, and to always smile
in both the service of others and adversity. He has shown me the truest
meaning of love for others, and the ability to understand and always 
live for what is important. A trip that started with me “taking care of
him” turned into a trip of substantial personal discovery.
Children with special needs have powerful talents, and if we could
only open our hearts to hear their voices, we would learn what it means
to live without conventional boundaries. I have lived a week with a
genius, not only of the mind, but more importantly, of the heart—and
my life has been permanently changed because of Fred.
I grew up in a four-room apartment in the middle of Beijing at
the turn of the twentieth century. Common household features such
as the existence of stairs within a house were thought of as decadent
luxuries representative of the incredibly wealthy. My life was simple. At
five years old, it was differentiated by two things, the times I was with
my mother and the times I was not.
My single mother was a chemist and professor at the University of
Beijing. Even at a young age, she distinguished herself from her peers 
with her remarkable ambition and intense passion for learning. From
growing up in the frigid winds of northern Mongolia, to becoming one
of three students to earn a full scholarship to China’s most competitive
university, to working as a government-sponsored chemist in goslar,
germany, my mother accomplished more before I was born than most
people achieved in a lifetime.
Unfortunately, I would not learn of the fabulous successes and arduous
trials of my mother until much, much later. All I could understand
or not understand at five years old was why my mother was rarely
home, why I did not see her for three months during the summer when
I lived with my grandparents, and why I was forced to go to a daycare
owned by a tyrannical monster who would tell ghost stories to make
me cry. Even now, much of my knowledge about my mother’s early life
is something I am still piecing together. As was the case then, my full
understanding of her brilliant yet ill-tempered persona is continually
hindered by the simple troubles of life. Although now, they are the issues
of an eighteen-year old teenager rather than those of a five-year
old child.
I remember nights we would spend together when she was busy
with her research and classes; I would sit in a desk next to her, drawing
pictures and imagine that I was her personal assistant. I also remember
times when I had to stay home alone because she had a
lecture to give or errands to run; I would lean against the window sill
staring down into the bleak, concrete streets waiting and watching
for the return of a petite form in a bright red jacket. Yet despite the
forlorn days and the lonely nights, I feel neither regret nor resentment
towards those early years or my mother. On the contrary, I am incredibly
proud and grateful for all the difficulties she endured in order
to raise me properly. Had it not been for my childhood experiences,
I would not have matured at such an early age or developed such a
strong sense of independence.
We moved to America in the spring of 1997. The transition of cultures
was daunting yet it failed to dishearten my mother. Like every
other experience in her life, she treated the move as an opportunity.
However, even my mother was not immune to the overwhelming cultural
shock, and despite her perseverance and accomplishments, she
continually struggled with the language barrier and the difference in
societal values.
While my mother was forced to labor against such changes, my
young age enabled me to adapt quickly to the new environment.
Unfortunately, my “Americanization” has caused a great deal of mystification
and incomprehension in my mother. not only do our manners
of speaking differ, but we no longer view traditional beliefs the same
way. Her lack of encouragement for my participation in athletics and
her excessive emphasis on my grades have been both frustrating and
upsetting. From my gregarious nature and social outings to my obdurate
refusals to comply with her every long-established demand, she
has been forced to accept the evolution of her daughter from that of
Chinese doll to American teenager.
nevertheless, despite our various differences and my acute assimilation
into another culture, I have never lost sight of what mattered
most to me, nor forgotten the roots of my heritage and rigorous upbringing.
My mother’s persistence and endurance are qualities which I
have proudly assumed and carried with me in every activity of my life.
From facing the ignorant racisms of elementary classmates to the malicious
jealousies of middle school peers, I have never doubted or second
guessed the work ethic and moral code that she instilled in me. Her resourcefulness
has also been highly influential and taught me of the importance
of seeking opportunities. Whether it was working along side
Philadelphia Inquirer journalists or researching marketing strategies for
a startup company, I have learned and developed with each success and
letdown encountered throughout my middle and high school years.
The difficulties of my mother and the difficulties that I faced in two
countries on two continents continue to define and shape my personality
and character. As mother and daughter continue along the journey
of life, I hope that she can come to accept and embrace the daughter
whom she has so diligently raised while I hope to slowly unravel the
full mystery that is my mother and, one day, finally comprehend and
appreciate the entirety of her effect on my life.
AS I sat at a table in the corner of a cafe, hunched over a press release
I was writing, I asked myself, “Why is a youth advocate from Long
Island, halfway around the world in South Africa this summer, debating
issues of sustainable development at a United nations conference?”
I needed to meet a deadline for the Youth Caucus at the World Summit
on Sustainable Development (WSSD) after an exhausting but exhilarating
day of lobbying. My goal was to help persuade world leaders at the
largest United nations conference in history that pursuing sustainable
development is essential for the future of our planet. Because I had attended
a previous Un conference about children’s rights, I understood
the importance of sustainable development in this context. Then, I was
chosen to represent SustainUS, a national network of American youth,
at the WSSD. I raised all of the money needed for my trip. I was thrilled
to witness the human spirit in its purest sense, taking collective action
to care for the less fortunate around the globe.
It was one thing to debate language in the conference document
about goals set to provide people in developing nations with access to
water. It was quite another to visit Soweto, only a few kilometers away
from the conference, and to meet poor Africans living in shanties with
limited access to water. This observation embedded in my mind the
seriousness of my work in a way that no statistic could describe. The
challenge on paper seemed quite different from the harshness of Soweto
and Alexandria and the long-suffering faces and pleading eyes of the
beggars there. I reminded myself that I needed to work around the
clock while I was in South Africa to help these impoverished people.
After arriving in Johannesburg this past August, I traveled to the
International Youth Summit. I drafted the youth declaration which was
used for lobbying, and I helped to write a statement from the youth
delegates for government representatives to read and consider while
negotiating. While at the WSSD, aside from writing daily press releases
that became Associated Press and reuters articles, I drafted speeches
which were presented to the delegates, including over one hundred
heads of state. I experienced an adrenaline rush when I fielded questions
from reporters during a press conference. These challenging situations
were new learning opportunities for me and provided me with
knowledge much different from what one learns in high school. I want
to learn more about the histories of international financial institutions
and the ways they interact with national governments.
As a result of my attending the World Summit, I have gained a
new perspective on global politics and its effects on people’s lives. The
thought that people from around the world can join together to solve a
global issue never fails to impress and inspire me.
My participation in the WSSD has taught me more about the convergence
of politics, international relations and the environment than
I have learned in any other activity or in the classroom. Working with
others to reveal the crucial need for sustainable development is essential
to our world’s successful future. All of my experiences have helped
me to understand how international meetings operate and to accept the
responsibility that comes with the privilege to attend and contribute to
the solution.
November 23, two years ago: Thanksgiving. My mom and
I celebrated the holiday as we had done for the last three years—by
delivering turkey dinners to homebound senior citizens. After carrying
the food to their kitchens, our brief visits with them were filled with
laughter, hugs, and the sharing of family photo albums. In the midst of
all the warmth and vitality, though, I couldn’t help noticing the signs of
loneliness and isolation: the windows with dust suggesting they hadn’t
been open in ages, the faded Christmas cards from 1995, and the tables
with a single place setting. It was during these visits that I committed to
find a way to better connect with the seniors in my community.
I discussed my desire with the mayor of Fremont in December two
years ago. He agreed that a younger voice could prove to be beneficial
and mentioned the Senior Citizen Commission for the City of Fremont
(an advisory board to City Council that worked to directly address the
needs of local seniors). I formally applied to the Commission and was
unanimously appointed by City Council in February last year, becoming
the youngest Commissioner in Fremont’s history.
Although I was initially met with skepticism from my fellow Senior
Citizen Commissioners, I was committed to sharing my vision of the
benefits of intergenerational interactions. For the next two months, my
after-school hours were devoted to calling nursing homes, negotiating
with movie theater managers, and recruiting teen volunteers. The
resulting event was the Senior Movie Outing, which paired teenagers
with wheelchair-bound seniors for a fun afternoon at the movies.
As a result of my hard work on the successful outing and the rave
reviews from all who participated, my fellow Commissioners became
more respectful of my contributions and open to my input. During the
annual grant-reviewing period (when the Commission decides which 
non-profit organizations will receive City funding), I advocated to fund
Lavender Seniors, an organization which supports gay and lesbian seniors.
While it had not previously been funded by the City, I strongly
believed it fell within the Commission’s charter of “serving the needs of
all seniors.” After sharing my rationale for proposing to fund Lavender
Seniors, I was proud that the Commissioners kept an open mind and
the majority voted to grant the organization funding.
In the two years since my appointment, I have cherished the unique
opportunities I have had to learn from people with different perspectives
and backgrounds. My time on the Commission has taught me to
be more confident when expressing my ideas, and to be more open to
hearing others’ thoughts. I am proud to be a trusted voice for seniors
in my community.
At my age, few peopLe can genuinely claim that they have had
a life-changing experience. After attending Leadership in the Business
World (LBW) at the Wharton School last summer, I became one of
those fortunate people to have experienced a life-changing academic
program. Four weeks of meeting business executives, working with
teammates through the night perfecting our professional business plan,
experiencing the independence and responsibility that will come with
college . . . none of this was advertised in the brochure for LBW, but all
of this is what made it uniquely meaningful to me.
The business leadership program centered on one culminating activity:
the prestigious LBW Business Plan Competition. As we prepared
for this, we heard from Wharton faculty members and many corporate
heavyweights including Brian roberts, CEO of Comcast Corporation.
Meeting educators, executives and entrepreneurs broadened my
knowledge of business, created a strategic network of connections and
proved profoundly inspiring; nothing motivates me more than see-
ing hard work and sharp thinking reach fruition. I vividly remember
when a managing director of a venture capital firm singled me out for
a networking demonstration. Expecting me merely to pretend to hand
him a fake business card, he was dumbfounded by impressed when he
glanced back as he accepted an actual business card from my tutoring
business. As my business card now rested in Mr. Kimmel’s rolodex
next to elegant cards from established businesspeople, a lesson was
ingrained in my mind about acting uniquely in order to distinguish
myself in a field of equally qualified and eager peers.
Despite the inherently competitive nature of LBW, I established
enduring friendships with students from far-reaching places, such as
Shanghai and Accra. We shared stories over meals in Houston Hall
about life at home and engaged in heated discussions about business
ethics. regardless of the origin of our passports, we became a family
while learning about each other’s cultures and future business aspirations.
The lessons of compassion and hard work from the business
plan competition also heightened my experience. Once when a fellow
marketing officer was struggling with determining channels of distribution
for our product, I disregarded trying to seem individually superior,
and we cooperatively tackled the problem. Putting the team before the
individual was a concept that materialized itself during my experience.
The bonds between all of the students and advisors spurred my entrepreneurial
spirit as I experienced how friendship supports business.
I knew this experience had changed me forever when I triumphantly
concluded our team’s business presentation, confidently promoting
our product and connecting with a crowd of peers and venture capitalists.
During the evening following the presentations, my fellow teammates
and I beamed with boundless relief and pride when the vCs
announced our team, EnTECH LLC, as the first place winners of the
competition. Exploring and honing my business and entrepreneurial
skills was intimidating initially, yet with creativity, hard work and an
unparalleled group dynamic of cooperation, this experience cemented
my passion for business and opened grand doors of opportunity.
“All I know about leadership I learned from . . .” What items could a person
use to describe leadership qualities?
Inspired by the student council advisors at my high school.
Sstudent council was a big part of my life in high school. I
have participated in it since my first year of high school. When I first
joined, I was quiet, naïve, and unwilling to participate in many activities.
I was scared to meet new people and afraid to apply myself. This
all began to change. Half way through my first year in student council,
one of the advisors can up to me and asked why I did not participate
that much. I did not have an answer for her and did not know how to
respond. After this, I began to think of an answer. I became frustrated
and decided to change. I started to show up at events and had a great
time. I realized I loved this and wanted to start leading these activities.
In my sophomore, junior, and now my senior year of high school, I asserted
myself and took on a strong leadership role in student council.
I did not figure out the answer to why I was so reserved until this year
with the help of this question.
When I looked up leadership in the dictionary, it said that it was the
capacity to lead and the act or instance of leading. These are two very
broad definitions of leadership. Many people have different notions of
what this word actually means. When I was challenged to use different
items to describe what leadership actually is, I thought this was going
to be a hard and obnoxious task. What could I learn from comparing
leadership to a stuffed animal or a rubber chicken? But when I sat 
down to come up with a couple of answers, I realized that leadership
could be compared to almost anything a person wants.
All I know about leadership I learned from a calculator. A calculator
can add everything together to come up with the best answer. It can
delete what is unnecessary and only include what is important. It can
solve any type of problem. These are all important equalities a leader
has to have. A leader has to be able to add all of the ideas together to
make the best possible plan. Leaders have to know how to decipher the
good and the bad out of an idea. They have to be versatile and know
how to deal with different types of issues.
All I know about leadership I learned from a ball. A ball is able to
bounce back up after it is dropped. It is round and has no creases. A
ball can be thrown back and forth to different people. All of these qualities
are also leadership qualities. A leader has to be ready for every situation
that is thrown at him or her. He or she has to be able to bounce
back from any setbacks and never dwell on the past. Leaders have to
exhibit many qualities and never be closed-minded about a situation.
A leader must be able to delegate when he or she cannot get the work
done. They have to trust everyone they lead to be able to “catch the
ball” and keep a project rolling.
This activity made me realize that being a leader is so much more
than just having authority and having the ability to take control of a
situation. A leader has to be trusting of all the people he or she leads
and, leaders must be able to combine ideas into one encompassing
idea. They cannot sit in the background and watch events happen; they
have to jump in and be involved. They should not delegate all their
responsibilities away.
Leadership is more than what the dictionary says it is.
I learned through all of this that I have many of these qualities.
I have the ability to solve problems, lead through adversity, and be
versatile. From answering this question, I realized that I could lead effectively,
even if my leadership style is different from other individuals.
When I joined student council in my first year of high school, I did
not have these qualities because I was never put into a situation where
I had to lead. I was too reserved to try. When I tried, I learned that I
could succeed in this. I did not realize until I answered this question
about leadership. I was never able to see that being a leader is not just
about taking control of a group and telling everyone what to do. When 
I was a freshman, I thought leadership was this. I did not know that I
did not have to be forceful and strict. I stereotyped a leader then. This
is where I went wrong. A leader is about being yourself and never letting
anyone change you. I thought I had to change to be a good leader.
Only when I expanded my comfort zone did I realize this was not true.
It only took three years and a silly question/game to figure this out.
People say that inner beautfy matters more than outer beauty.
But when I looked into the mirror and saw my face covered with
unsightly blemishes, it was hard to tell myself that and believe it. By
the time I entered high school, my acne had gotten worse, and my
self-esteem was at an all-time low. So in the summer of ninth grade, I
embarked on an unexpectedly difficult and emotionally trying quest
for clear skin, an experience that culminated in one of my proudest
achievements.
My typical daily diet consisted of sugary cereal for breakfast; salty
turkey sandwiches, soda, and chips for lunch; a candy bar for snack;
and rice and fried noodles for dinner. I never thought that my diet
would be a cause of my acne, but the possibility first came to me when
I was reading a skincare article. Desperate for a cure, I searched “clear
skin diet” on the Internet. The websites that turned up all echoed the
same message: a balanced and healthy diet is crucial for beautiful skin.
The recommended foods listed included large portions of fruits, veg-
etables, grains, nuts, and fish; 8 glasses of water daily and only small
amounts of high-sodium, high-fat, and high-sugar foods. I researched
further and found out that the expensive chemical cleansers that I
had been using were not the answer—gentle face washes and a coat
of sunblock were inexpensive products that could reduce breakouts. I
knew that changing my entire diet and skincare routine would require
a tremendous amount of commitment and willpower. But determined
to improve my skin and my self-confidence, I began to transform my
lifestyle. I started by incorporating fruits and vegetables into my meals
and replacing sugary cereal with whole grains, chips with carrots, and
fried noodles with salmon. For a long, painful week, I stuck to this diet
and restrained myself from any junk food. My skin condition changed
gradually but substantially. By the end of the week, my skin was noticeably
smoother, clearer, and brighter. Yet I found myself relapsing,
unable to continue for long without indulging myself, unable to swallow
the horribly plain salads and chewy carrots. Every time I stopped,
the acne came back. It came to the point where I despised the acne and
coveted the clear skin enough to force myself back on track. It became
an excruciating pattern of cravings and self-restraint. I struggled with
these two impulses until I became used to healthy eating, even enjoying
it. now, two years later, my skin is better than ever and I have never
gone back to eating the way I had before.
I have no awards or medals to show for my particular achievement.
But no academic distinction in the world can match what I gained from
my experience with changing my diet: healthier skin, self-confidence,
and newfound mental strength. Above all, I realized that by improving
my outer appearance, I had enriched my inner appearance.
The Hindu god, Brahma, seeing the plight of a society tainted
by envy and greed, presents a boy with a drum that he can only hear,
not see. This instrument, which is supposed to bring patience and discipline
to humanity, is the foundation of Indian classical music. The
boy has yet to discover that musicians use this tool to speak, allowing
their minds to transmit messages through the vibrant pulsations of
their notes.
My guru told me this story when I began learning the tabla, a north
Indian classical drum. Though he never revealed the ending, he offered
one clue. “It doesn’t matter how fast your hands can beat the drum if
your mind cannot keep up with them.”
A typical American teenager, I had always yearned for raw strength
and speed on the tabla. I thought those were the qualities that made the
perfect percussionist. During concerts, I saw musicians’ fingers gliding
across the head of the drum producing the extraordinary impression of
force, immediacy of genius and intensity of passion that left audiences
spellbound. I knew that to become the best at tabla, I needed to display
my talent in a similar way. I wanted to play equally as fast and forcefully,
even if it meant sacrificing precision for power.
I asked my guru to train me to play like the maestros, but he said I
lacked mental focus; I didn’t listen to or enjoy my music. He believed
the mind and body must be in sync in order to master the instrument.
I never fully understood this concept until the imagination of one visually
handicapped child attuned my mind to the beat of the drum.
As a summer volunteer at the Braille Institute in Anaheim, I developed
the musical talents of blind elementary school children through
teaching the tabla. My friends and I bought instruments and music
with the money that we made during a summer recycling program in
our neighborhood. During our first class, the children jumped into action,
thumping erratically on their instruments. I chuckled at the sight
of nine jubilant youngsters producing musical mayhem.
Chaandni was different. Shy and reserved, she felt the drum’s
smooth texture and stroked the soft middle portion of the drum head.
I stood astonished as she performed her ritual. Tap. Listen. Smile. Tap. 
Listen. Smile. I could see her contemplating the emerging rhythm and
resonance of each successive pulse. Watching a budding musician feel
the delicate timbre of each drumbeat is a thrilling sensation.
I learned more from observing than I did through years of erratic
practice. Chaandni would eagerly listen to a musical piece, then strike
incessantly until she produced a matching pitch. When she stumbled,
she would sit patiently pinpointing her mistake. She didn’t speak; her
insight and emotion glowed through her music. For the first time in
my life I felt the depth of the drums. For the first time, I truly comprehended
and loved the instrument.
She was indeed a special soul. Her curiosity was insatiable; her regard
for the drum was incomparable; her smile was inspiring. Her joyful
progress inspired me to perform in London this summer with my
guru. Driven by the spirit of a young girl who never let her disability
impede her innate talent, I played gracefully in front of hundreds of
spectators and cherished the inner triumph.
I am a living example of Brahma’s story. The combination of grace
and force on the tabla is my channel for communicating emotions. My
tale ends with the appreciation that the mind is a beautiful vehicle for
the drum.
I used to spend countless nights wide-eyed, anxiously dreading
a high school life teeming with harsh peers and hollow hallways,
immersed in a cold atmosphere eternally void of familiarity’s warm
embrace. I’ll admit that this is not a hopeful vision; nevertheless, I cer-
tainly risked accepting this ugly reality when I supported my family’s
decision to uproot itself and move from new Jersey to Florida after my
freshman year.
Somewhat flexible, my parents gave me a significant voice in the
decision as I would be most profoundly affected. Yet, I had spent my
entire life in the same cozy center-hall colonial in the same new Jersey
suburb. I had known my friends since youth, when we had snowball
fights during the icy winter and ran through lawn sprinklers during
the summer. Teachers knew my family and cordially greeted me in the
halls. I could never move. In my mind, I was set!
Or was I? Instinct tugged at my heart, something was missing in
my life because life is not about being “set.” Lured by the concept of a
fresh start, I yearned for the chance to write my own story. As the son of
Indian immigrants, I had adventure in my blood; the time had come to
venture beyond my comfort zone and stake a unique claim in Florida.
The first few months were trying; only birds joined me during lunch
and I spend weekends alone writing introspective poetry. My fifteenth
birthday centered on a family discussion about our affection for our
new home while Hurricane Charley pounded the life out of Florida.
I regretted moving. By fortuitous research, however, I learned more
about innovative entrepreneurs who were shaping our world. I have
not looked back since.
My self-inflicted adversity finally evoked personal growth. I constantly
introduced myself to strangers and pursued my passions in
different activities. By launching and supporting community organizations,
I transformed into a proactive leader as I overcame difficulties
in varied contexts. Continuously seeking challenges in the community
and IB Program, I teamed up with other motivated citizens and students
to thrive and contribute to my new home.
Today I am highly involved in my community with many friends
and mentors. nobody knows me for my family or childhood, just for
who I am today. The results of my own decisions and actions mean
much more than what has been bestowed upon me. I would risk it
all again because I know that I can only enjoy what I have earned.
Breaking away from the risk-averse crowd that holds an exaggerated
fear for what can be lost has been refreshing. I have gained trust in myself
to defy odds because I never would have dreamt of the happiness
and accomplishments that I have been honored to achieve in Florida. 
College will certainly thrust a fiercer Hurricane Charley at me, but I
will stare it straight in the eye and exceed expectations, eventually leaving
an enduring legacy for the world through my entrepreneurial and
philanthropic endeavors.
A thin shard of sunlight cut through the vent of the windowless,
cold, and cramped one bedroom basement apartment. The
apartment stood three stories high with its weight suffocating the basement.
I sat on the stained carpet, alone, playing with my one and only
prized Hot Wheels car. My mother was working her ten-hour shift as a
minimum wage waitress and my father was nowhere to be found. My
father left our family when I turned three-years old. He also left the
burden of his reckless gambling debt to my mother and left us to fend
for ourselves. At the time, my mother barely spoke any English, yet she
had to find work in order to support us. She became occupied with
work, so I was frequently isolated at home. The house on Wellington
Avenue in Daly City evolved to represent all the suppression my mother
and I endured. As a child, wherever I could go to be away from the
cell, I went.
A few days after my eleventh birthday, I trudged home on an afternoon
to discover our house robbed again, this time of my mother’s
savings for the following month’s rent and my new “Stingray 5000”
water gun. I burst into tears and cried in my mother’s fragile arms. It
was that moment I vowed to do something about our situation. I was
tired living in that horrid house, being deprived of my mother because
of her demanding work schedule, and feeling like the whole world was
constantly against us. Early in my childhood, I realized that our family
was financially poor, because of that, I wanted to be rich in knowledge.
Every day after school, I would take the transit to the Daly City Public
Library where I could be away from the miserable house and focus on 
my studies. It was there that I would max out my library card to read
Harry Potter novels and sit at the wide tables with my head in textbooks
and magazines, searching for a better life. My mother knew the anger
I had for the house, as a result, she would indirectly encourage me to
channel out my negative feelings for the house into positive ones for
learning by dropping by the library after work with apple juice for me.
My appreciation for my mother is great because she still managed to set
time aside from her work to attend to my needs. My objective was to
gain all the knowledge I could, in hope of devising a plan to get us out
of the Wellington Black Hole. At one point, I spent a whole Saturday
looking for some sort of mathematical equation that would cure our
blight. Enriching my knowledge was my naïve way of trying to improve
and control our bleak situation. Fortunately, my mother’s relentless effort
for work allowed us to move to a better part of Daly City.
When I finally got my driver’s license at the age of sixteen, after a
vigorous curriculum of driver’s education, driving lessons, and a driving
test, the first place I drove my mother’s old Toyota Camry was to
the house on Wellington Avenue. The freedom of driving allowed me to
explore a place where I had been trapped in for so long. Crouched on
the warm cement, I glanced pass the faded wooden walls and peered
through the constricting vent to see the three year old that once sat on
the cold floor. As I stood with the sun shining on my back, I acknowledged
that my mother and I were given a situation that we did not
choose, but we ultimately became the ones who changed the course of
our lives. A photo of the Wellington house sits on my bedroom window
edge, casting a small shadow when sun light beams in. It serves as a
painful reminder of my background, and an inspiration to continue
excelling in life, even when unfavorable conditions dominate.
I sat there, stunned for an instant, and then jumped as high as
I could and screamed as loud as my voice would allow. Blood rushed
through my entire body, while the butterflies in my stomach finally
flew away. I had just received my LAMDA Diploma with Honors, a task
that has only been done by one person before me. LAMDA, the London
Academy of Music and Dramatic Arts, comes to my high school, as
well as others in the states, and gives what are essentially acting exams.
In these exams, you must perform a series of monologues, and to
receive the Diploma you must perform four five-minute monologues,
one pre-1910, one post-1980, one Shakespearean, and one of your
choice. I had worked for weeks on my monologues, perfecting them as
much as I could, staying after school, working at lunch, even at home,
despite the shouting by my sister for me to stop. When it came time
to perform, I was incredibly nervous; however, after I came out of my
performance, I lingered outside the theater, waiting upon my results,
and when they came, I was astounded. not only was I able to pass my 
exam, but also I came out of it with greater knowledge of theater than
I had when I started. I learned a great deal from taking these various
exams, most notably the age old lesson that hard work does pay off.
The personal splendor I felt was one that I had never felt before, and I
live to feel it again.
Music has shaped my intellectual life in many
ways. Music is a common language that connects me to others who
share my enthusiasm for creating it. Furthermore, I learn about my
own preferences and personality through the pieces that intrigue me.
As I expose myself to a wider array of styles and eras, my musical tastes 
grow more complex. Through music, I welcome opportunities to expand
my friendships as well as my instrumental horizons.
I began studying piano at age six. For the next five years, my mother
lived vicariously through my musical education, which her family had
not been able to afford. In fifth grade, as I was becoming an earnest
piano student, I was selected to commence violin lessons and play in
my elementary school orchestra. From that day on, I saw life from a
violinist’s point of view.
Although I am a seasoned pianist, an ambitious solo violinist, and a
fledgling cellist, I am, above all, a passionate chamber musician. My experience
in a chamber quartet has had a strong impact on my character.
When I was the second violinist, I simply enjoyed making music with
my friends. Only after I became the first violinist did I feel the responsibility
of leadership settling uncomfortably on my shoulders. However,
the burden soon became a part of me and transformed into enthusiasm.
now, as the quartet leader, I use the small group setting to channel each
of our individual creative instincts. Each member of the quartet shares
her musical interests, bringing favorite repertoire to the table, so that
we each participate in the learning and playing experience. The quartet
is also an outlet for my musical fancy. Ever since I discovered the
Finale music writing software, I have delighted in arranging works for
our quartet to play and perform. This year, my goal is to arrange and
perform the Ferrante and Teicher version of the love theme from The
Godfather for a piano duet and orchestra.
As my aspirations grow, I aim to arrange music for a greater variety
of instruments and to explore jazz, pop, and other styles of music
on the piano. I desire to join others with similar talent and passion at
Duke. However, before I leave my high school, I hope my appreciation
for music will leave a mark on my community.
I ran around nervously, yelling at my parents to wait downstairs;
I did not want them to see anything that was going on. I rushed
as fast as I could to make my bed, something most teenagers do not
usually do. I made sure everything was in proper order as I called my
parents up to my room. As I placed the last pillow on the bed, I acquired
a sense of completion and achievement. I had done it; I designed
and redecorated my bedroom. It was at this point when I, in my
heart, became an interior designer.
This picture represents more than just a bedroom to me; it is my
first step on a path that I hope directs me to fulfillment. Designing
my bedroom allowed me to explore the creative aspect of my life, and
I was, and still am, able to appreciate the amount of creative talent I
possess. It has become an intense passion in my life and I value this a
great deal. This process illustrated the creative potential that I possess
within myself, and I know that I can apply this promise in any aspect
of my life.
One of the greatest features of this project I took on is that I was able
to see the results of my actions immediately. It was a hands-on experience
that I enjoyed to its fullest, and I was exultant with the outcome.
Overall, this project was a great success in my eyes, and even in the
eyes of my family and friends who are amazed at my capabilities with
design. However, as the designer, I do get frustrated with infinitesimal
flaws. On the wall to the left of my bed there are two shelves and
framed artwork that I created myself. In the process of the installation, I
centered these shelves and artwork on the wall; however, the palm tree
that I placed in the corner covers up one of the frames. I now know that
it probably would have been better if I moved the shelves and artwork
to the left of the wall. The importance of this is not the flaw itself, but in
the fact that I learned from what I had done and know how to improve
myself the next time. Overall, I feel the room came out beautifully and
it symbolizes my first true triumph with design.
Though this project meant a great deal to me emblematically, I
also just had fun with it. Utilizing my imagination, and figuring out
how I was going to make things work within the room was simply 
enjoyable. not only was the design process pleasurable, but also the
actual painting, nailing, and organizing itself was satisfying. I was also
able to bond with my father through the project. He joined me in my
most successful achievement of the room—the design and creation of
the headboard. This venture and this picture epitomize my success. I
consider my bedroom to be an elegant, contemporary work of art, and
this picture embodies all the work I put into my design as well as the
sense of achievement I received after its completion.
I stood behind the curtains, listening to the applause to the
previous act. I exhaled, realizing that this was a moment that fulfilled
my childhood wish. Tonight was special because instead of an alto aria
or a jazz lick, I had prepared a song unique to my identity. I curled my
fingers around the microphone and waited impatiently as the curtains
opened.
My love for performance stemmed from my appreciation of music
as a child. In the city in China where I spent the first ten years of my
life, I never found a choir to join and never laid eyes on a grand piano.
nonetheless, I treasured my passion for song and sought ways to bring
music into my life. I sang with our old record player when I was barely
tall enough to reach it. On certain afternoons, my best friend and I
would tape bed sheets to the ceiling as curtains and invite neighbors to
come listen. There, we sang in duet, danced, and bowed while clasping
each other’s hands. Captured in our own musical sanctuary, we never
noticed the hours that passed by.
Music evokes in me the emotions that words and pictures cannot.
I also revel in the intellectual challenges that music offers. I find it
thrilling to tackle difficult, delicious repertoire, and I enjoy composing
my own melodies. Through music, I can share and celebrate my past.
When I was asked to share my cultural talents at my high school, I
looked for a song that my mother sang when I was young, but I could
not find the sheet music. A week before tonight, I sat down by the old
piano in the practice room at school. With only the old tune ringing
faintly in my mind, my hands soon took a life of their own and experimented
with chords, arpeggios, and trills. I superimposed these on the
original melody and composed variations. My voice, too, frolicked with
the piano as I sang the tune repeatedly. I was lost in another musical
paradise. I felt like a child again, tucked under the covers, listening to
my mother’s song as I drifted away to dreams.
now, dressed in an old Chinese dress that my mother had worn
in her youth, I stepped onto the empty stage illuminated by pale blue
light. I held the microphone up to my lips and smiled before starting.
Then, I brought to life the beautiful ballad that had brightened my 
childhood in China. My mind overflowed with warm memories of that
faraway city as I lulled the audience with my melody. When I caught
my mother’s face in the audience, I knew she nestled in the same air of
nostalgia.
Music allows me to present my native culture and contribute to the
diversity in my community. It has stimulated my mind and provided an
outlet for my creativity. To me, nothing is more pleasurable than being
imaginative. Carrying my childhood love of music through my teenage
years has been a gratifying experience, and I look forward to continuing
in my undergraduate years.
The summer before my freshman year and again two years later, we
spent two weeks in Costa rica, living with families there and working
both helping build a renovation on a church there and playing with
children in a refugee settlement called Pavas. The year in between, we
ran a day camp for underprivileged children in San Antonio, Texas, and
the summer before my junior year, we did various kinds of service in
Columbus, Ohio. For our winter trips, we have done urban outreach
in new York City and in Miami, trying to use those experiences to help
our downtown church improve its outreach ministries. My service experience
with church goes beyond these trips twice a year, though. I
spend several evenings each year volunteering in the homeless shelter
in my church’s gym both with youth group and with my family. We also
go as a family each year early on Christmas morning to serve breakfast
at the shelter and celebrate the holiday with the guests. These are pieces
of the categories I call “Central Presbyterian Church youth group” and
“Community Service” that I didn’t have space for in the box, but that
mean a lot to me and play huge roles in my life.
Another experience that I haven’t found a space for is the Maine
Coast Semester, the four months I spent on Chewonki neck in Maine
during the fall of my junior year. Although my essay provides one snapshot
of the experience, it cannot possibly speak to everything the semester
meant to me. Moving out of my family’s house and into a cabin
with six girls my own age was extremely exciting for me, and what
I found when I got there was even better than what I had expected.
It was a place I could relate to. In science class, we would learn to
identify the trees and wildlife that were living just outside our cabins.
In the afternoon, working on the farm, we would lovingly tend the
animals and plants that we would then harvest, prepare in the kitchen,
and eat. Each of us realized our connection to every other member
of the Chewonki community and to the land itself, and learned to be
responsible with that connection. When I was assigned to collect recyclables
before breakfast for my morning chore, I showed up just as
promptly and with just as much energy as when my chore was to milk
the cows or to clean the bathrooms. Similarly, when a teacher asked me
to read an assignment for homework, I got it done, not simply because
I wanted to keep a good grade, but because the entire class depended
on each person’s individual preparation in order to have rich, meaningful
discussion.
Coming home, I realized that here, too, I was connected to my community.
Although it is larger than the one in Maine, I still have the same
responsibility to those around me, and will have that responsibility to
whatever community I am part of for the rest of my life. In my daily life,
just like on my service trips, I try to look for chances to benefit something
greater than myself. In college, I look forward to becoming part
of a new community, and figuring out how to find my niche, so that I
can serve that community as well as be served by it.
One of Stanford’s essay prompts is to provide a photo and explain its
significance.
I once belonged to royalty, strolling along the lush pastures
of grass and enormous spires of renaissance structure. Unfortunately,
I was not given a crown on my voyage, even though I felt the crown
when visiting the grand castle in Spain. The picture shown is important
to me not only because of the spectacular view, but it also represents
my passions for the study of Spain’s cultural
history and literature as well as how
those subjects offer clues to discovering
my individuality.
Traveling to Spain gave me the
chance of a lifetime to explore its history
with respect to my personality. In
the photograph, the castle in the background
once belonged to the great royal
unifiers of Spain named Ferdinand and
Isabella. With their process of unification
came the exploration of the
Americas. Explorers such as Christopher
Columbus established Spanish territories in the new World, such as
Colombia, which is the country my parents are from, and I was born.
From this chain of causality, Spain’s history essentially created my existence.
Pondering about my historical background from Spain, perhaps
I would have never been born if the king and queen never unified
Spain. I could be speaking Arabic if the expulsion of the Moors
never occurred under the hands of the Spanish monarchs. Curiously, 
I could have been born as an Indian native, because the new World
would have never been explored. Perhaps, I wouldn’t be looking at
the same photo, explaining its significance! Frankly, exploring Spain’s
history has enabled me to discover my origins. When viewing the
picture through my point of view, I see myself returning the roots of
my creation.
Spain also offers a vibrant history of literary works and significant
innovations in Hispanic literature. Similar to the exploration of history
leading to a clue for learning about myself, I have the ability to explore
the literature the Hispanic culture has to offer. Knowing two languages
allows me to discover the essence of ideas authors such as gabriel
garcía Márquez, Jorge Luis Borges, and Cervantes wanted to convey
to their audience. Since language is to a code for ideas, I can decipher
two different kinds of codes, English and Spanish, to understand the
author’s emotions placed into his or her literature. Spanish literature
also enhances Hispanic culture as a positive influence in the world.
reading literature in Spanish and English consequently has allowed
me to further search for clues about my cultural origins, since Spanish
literature is considered a voice among the people.
Perhaps my interest in these two subjects came from knowing I
come from a Colombian family. I am the first in our family to be born
in the United States, and as a result, I represent two different cultures.
Knowing I come from a culturally different family, I feel passionate
about exploring my family’s cultural roots because it is a method to
discover clues about my individuality, as well as the origins of my family.
In the USA, the last names of Aguado or granados are rarely found
among common Americans. When I traveled to Spain, I purchased
wooden plaques showing the coat of arms from my ancestors bearing
the Aguado and granados names. When I found these plaques commemorating
my family, I had felt I found yet another clue to my personality,
since my last names were found from Spain (similar to finding
a needle in a haystack). Finding my coat of arms on my trip proves my
origins lie within the history and culture of Spain. The trip to Spain
gave me the opportunity to explore my existence as a human being, as
well as knowing from where I came.
Based on my perceptions, my picture represents to me the complex
evolution of my personality, since I am constantly finding new clues
leading to the understanding of who I am. This picture is a part of my 
constant search for my individuality and is a reminder of the beginning
of my personal exploration. This is my crown.
The buzzing of the alarm clock suddenly stops and, to my
surprise, I am awakened not by the noise but by the silence, rudely
jerked from my sleep. Six forty-five, the numbers read. I pull my comforter
tighter under my chin and close my eyes, fully intending to get
up in a few minutes. I’m sure I’ll wake back up in a few minutes, but
not yet. I can’t do it yet.
“Lolo!” someone’s whispering to me, in my dreams I’m sure. “Lolo,
get up! Aren’t you coming?” Coming where? One instant of confusion.
Only one blissful instant, and then it all makes sense. It’s Saturday.
“Yeah, I’m coming.” The listlessness of my voice surprises me. I groan
and fold the thick layers of blankets off of me. The frigid December air
pounces. As I watch, thousands of tiny bumps germinate on my arms,
and the fine hairs stand alarmingly straight. After getting out of bed and
pulling on my bathing suit, I eagerly throw my winter coat around my
arms and shoulders. I debate crawling back in my bed. no one said I
had to do it.
I look at my cabinmates, and I push that thought from my mind.
Although Lucy and Tuna stay nestled in their beds, Cara is pulling a
sweatshirt over her head. Emily and Constanza are standing quietly,
fully dressed, and Sarah is duct-taping a pair of flip-flops on her bare
feet. Shoes. I had almost forgotten. I open the door, and look down at
our tiny porch. My tennis shoes are indeed there, frozen solid. I force
the unyielding layers of ice around my feet, wincing. The laces crunch,
and small crystals of ice fall gently to the floor as I tie a bow on each
shoe. Everyone is ready. It’s time to go.
I wrap my arm through Constanza’s as we step off the last wooden
step from the cabin. The air isn’t so bad out here--probably a few degrees
above zero. My feet begin to tingle and then to burn. We trudge
through the snow as quickly as possible, and I’m sure my excitement
is visible on my face.
Soon, we can see the water of the Sheepscot river, stained with thin
sheets of ice. Most people would say we’re out of our minds. My friends
back in Atlanta will call me crazy. I grin. Squeezing Constanza’s hand
on one side and Emily’s on the other, I stumble through the mud left
by the receding tide.
“One, two, three!” We count together and sprint into the icy water,
diving under the surface just for an instant. As we clamber out of the
water and toward our chilled towels, our semester-mates cheer wildly.
The next threesome heads toward the water.
Later in the morning, the thirty-six students at Maine Coast Semester
file into the dining hall for breakfast, about twenty of us dripping wet
and beaming. Five of us sport shorts and sunglasses in a foolish attempt
to defy the cold. I follow my friends to a table where a large book stands
open, and sign my name under the heading “Polar Bears: December
7.” As I sit eating my bagel, I catch the eye of a wet-headed polar bear
across the room and we smile together.
The quick ripping of the tape
 and the heavy thuds of cardboard
boxes echo throughout an empty, unfamiliar, and lonely house.
As the heavy boxes are slowly opened and their contents revealed, my
young heart jumps for joy. There, within that scant and unexpectedly 
durable shell of cardboard, lie my invaluable possessions. After removing
the bubbly layer of protection from my valuables, I begin to place
them, one by one, onto my familiar, yet strangely new shelf.
I first lift out my ragged and faithful stuffed animal Mr. Teddy.
Though torn, dirty and missing his left eye, he reminds me of my
youth and the one constant friendship in my life. He has traveled with
me thousands upon thousands of miles to and from each of the seven
vastly different living experiences that have defined my life. Mr. Teddy
has been there with me throughout the difficulty of every one of the
transitions in my life.
next, I pull out a small, fragile lamp decorated with blue and white
pinstripes. A small yellow duck lives at the bottom of the glass compartment.
As I fumble with the rotating switch, I see that only two of
the three different settings are properly working. now, after years of
travel, only the nightlight and brightest setting work. I leave the light
on at its brightest setting and place it on my night table. The brightness
comforts me.
I return to the box to pull out my thick, denim blue journal and
my favorite ink pen. I flip through the pages, pausing to glance at my
informal collection of favorite pictures of friends, articles, and tidbits
of memories that I have compiled through the stages in my life. I open
to the last section of the book and glance at my favorite quotations alphabetically
sorted by subject and author. I look up Woody Allen and
smile at his ridiculously funny honesty and place my journal on the
ledge next to my window.
After refueling my ink pen I scoop up my carefully packaged rosary
and Bible. As I crack open the case, the pearl white beads of my rosary
glint in the sunlight and my ivory covered Bible, given to me on my
First Communion, opens to the front page. There, written in my aunt’s
handwriting, is a greeting written in Spanish and signed by my now
deceased grandparents. These two items represent one of my only connections
to my relatives and the history of my family in Colombia: a
common religion and a belief in Providence.
After saying a quick prayer of thanksgiving I pull out my final and
most necessary possession. The dust flies off the glass as I blow across
the surface. There, under the grime of travel, lies my own face fixed in
time. Enclosed within a light maple frame, a color photograph captures
my eleven year old self clothed in bright purple soccer shorts and a 
white sleeveless uniform shirt. My hair is tightly pulled back in the
quintessential ponytail, sweat dripping off my skin and dirt covering
my socks. My face is frozen in an expression of relief, domination, and
triumph after scoring the game-winning goal in the merciless sun of
a Houston summer. I study the image and wipe a single tear from my
eye. My knee aches sympathetically, and I prepare to hang the picture.
As I pick up the hammer, I realize that although soccer is no longer a
part of my life, I have filled the vacancy in my heart with other challenging
and significant activities that I have grown to love with the
same fervor. That picture, though simple, encompasses the passion that
is my life. It will forever symbolize for me the love and dedication I
have for everything I do.
With a last glance, I hang the heavy frame on the wall. The box
is empty, unlike the room. Although the room is only filled by a few
items, it is occupied by the only items I will ever need for the rest of my
life: friendship, humility, self-expression, family, god, and passion.
Because I find life's intricacy So amazing, biology and its related
subjects are the most enjoyable topics for me. Within biology our
brains interest me the most, which—with their countless neurons and
chemicals—give us unmatched emotion, uniqueness, and potential.
Due to the possibilities of understanding emotions and mental problems
from their source, I’d like to develop a great understanding of
neuroscience, and use it to help people overcome diseases and mental
barriers as a doctor, allowing them to achieve the highest possible quality
of life.
Brown University would also give me the greatest ability to help
people. With their deep community involvement and famous neuroscience
department, I would have an outstanding opportunity to help
people as I develop the utmost understanding of neurology. The open
curriculum will also bring me more benefits. The ability to study multiple
languages and social sciences will help me interact and exchange
ideas with fewer limits. Moreover, the curriculum will allow me to be-
come an outstanding scientist. The way in which this could help me
scientifically is best summarized in the words of my biology professor
at Kent State University: “One of our major inhibiting factors in addressing
more complicated issues of science is that scientists need to
have a sweeping grasp of multiple disciplines such as psychology, biology,
convention physics, and quantum physics. And if that wasn’t bad
enough, you’re going to need amazing writing skills to convey your
ideas to other people and seem credible.” I don’t necessarily expect
to achieve full mastery in the four or five years I spend as an undergraduate,
but I believe Brown is where I’ll have the best opportunity
to advance in these areas. To expand even more, the open curriculum
would allow me to surround myself with individuals that are just as
passionate about languages and sciences as I am. With these classmates
I would love to have great conversations and even participate in research.
Attending Brown University will bring me all of these things,
which will aid me in becoming the best doctor and scientist I can possibly
be.
The famous Greek mathematician, Archimedes, said,
“give me a lever long enough and a fulcrum on which to place it, and I
shall move the world.” The basic principle of a lever is that as the length
of a lever increases, the effort needed to be exerted to accomplish a task
decreases. This fundamental law can also apply to life. Life’s levers are
experiences and opportunities that combine to motivate the individual
to succeed. However, a lever is useless when forced upon an incorrectly
placed fulcrum. Fulfilling oneself with passion and values is to build
and place a strong and stable fulcrum. Without a passion for success,
these opportunities and experiences become obsolete. Few find the
correct balance between these variables and thus fail to reach their full
potential. I, however, plan to be someone who finds that balance.
In an effort to build a successful lever for myself, I have searched
for these experiences and opportunities all of my life. I have always
had a passion for learning and a natural drive to succeed. At the beginning
of my sophomore year in high school, I began to volunteer
at a local, family owned zoo. This idea came from an innate passion
for animals and an ongoing interest in science. At first, it was simply
to complete a community service graduation requirement, but soon
thereafter, I realized it was so much more. Work there was not like
what most zoo volunteers experience. When other volunteers were
following zookeepers and watching animals through cages at larger
commercial zoos, I was spending nights “monkeysitting” my supervisor’s
newborn Japanese snow macaque. However, calling it work
solely alludes to labor. It was more of a life-altering, unique opportunity
and provided me with the experience that clenched my decision
to major in animal science.
Along with my passion for animals, I am also always looking for
ways to challenge myself intellectually. I am an active member of my
school’s Envirothon and Math teams and a Science Olympiad competitor.
After high school, it has always been a goal of mine to attend an
academically competitive university. A few years of researching brought
me to Cornell’s College of Agriculture and Life Sciences (CALS). After
attending the CALS open house and information lecture on the animal
science department, I knew it was the perfect fit. One of the reoccurring
themes of my conversations with students and professors alike was
CALS dedication to shaping students into leaders.
With the experience I have gained in working at the zoo, I see myself
emerging as a natural leader. Leaders are those few who do manage
to balance the use of their “lever and fulcrum.” In high school, I also
have worked my way to positions such as; nHS President, Steel Drums
Ensemble President, and Student representative to the School Board.
Leadership roles like these are not something I plan to make the past
after high school. In a school like CALS that has so many extracurricular
activities to get involved in, I am sure obtaining positions similar to
the ones I hold now would not be difficult. One of the clubs that I have
seriously explored is the Pre-vet Society. veterinary School is something
that I plan to pursue after college and hope to get involved in at
the undergraduate level.
The building of a successful lever has only just begun for me. There
is still so much that I have not seen or done. Life is full of opportunities 
that can lead to great experiences, one of my greatest being volunteering
at the Woodland Zoo. With all of the opportunities CALS has to
offer, if given the chance to attend, I am certain that I would utilize
every one; becoming not only an active member of the university, but
a leader of tomorrow.
Everyknows it takes both hard work and a good
understanding of the subject in order to complete a project. However,
I never appreciated the other academic strengths and personal qualities
needed until my 11th grade physics final. The task was to create an
energy conversion machine that would undergo a minimum of five energy
conversions. The construction of the machine piqued my interest
in pursuing an engineering career and later became the pivotal factor in
my decision to apply to Caltech.
I knew from the beginning that it would be a challenge to complete
just the minimum requirements for the project. Believing that my
teammates and I had the ability and potential to do better, as the team
leader, I made it our goal to cover the conversions of all eight energy
types that were taught in class. I also strived to add into the machine
a bonus feature of breaking an egg. Struggling to find a solution for
breaking the egg, I reflected upon the force of gravity we had learned.
This idea led to a trap-door mechanism that would allow the egg to fall
under gravity and break upon impact.
In addition to excelling in math and the sciences, I am also a strong
visual art student. Enjoying drawing and designing, I gained a different
perspective that I may not have had as just a science student. The
creativity and imagination from the visual arts allowed me to use toilet 
paper rolls, Styrofoam, and Popsicle sticks as the primary materials to
construct the machine in a limited space within limited time. Together
with good planning, coordination, and the ability to work in a team, my
innovative perspective from visual arts made this project a success.
On the due date, I watched with a prideful glee as the machine
operated smoothly. For going beyond the minimum requirements, the
machine was very well received. Beyond earning an excellent grade, the
challenge of completing this project intrigued my increasing interest in
engineering. My expectations and goals as a future college student were
also evolved during the process.
Certain that I wanted to become a professional in the engineering
field, I began searching for a college that would provide me with an excellent
academic and hands-on experience. While I knew that Caltech
is a prestigious science and engineering school, it wasn’t until I received
the Caltech Signature Award that I developed a stronger interest in becoming
a Techer. Upon further research, I realized that Caltech is the
college for me.
At Caltech, my engineering aspirations will be realized in this challenging,
research-integrated environment. The rigorous coursework
and the generous research opportunities at Caltech will provide the
challenge I need to achieve my goal of becoming an engineer. In return,
I believe the combination of my academic strength and creative
personal characteristics will definitely contribute to Caltech and help to
add to the interdisciplinary atmosphere of the school.
It takes more than just hard work to succeed as an engineering professional.
However, it can be achieved with the outstanding educational
opportunity at Caltech and with my other academic strengths and personal
qualities.
Boy! Was I disappointed to receive your letter! However, I do welcome
the chance to explain more clearly my values, passions and reasons
why I think Duke is my first choice.
My application and recommendation letters stated my scientific
accomplishments. The passive thermoacoustic cooling device we presented
at the Intel International Science and Engineering Fair (Intel 
ISEF) won the Best of Team Category and First Award, among numerous
other special prizes. We patented this device and are working with
Taiwan’s Compal Corporation, your computer could very well be using
parts built by them, to iron out a few more problems and to eventually
share this revolutionary product with the world. now I would like to
talk about more about just who Pen-Yuan Hsing is.
My education started in the US when I was 7. Having come from
Taiwan, faced with enormous cultural and language barriers, I had to
learn to adapt. Overcoming loneliness and self-conflict, I made lifelong
friends and English became in many ways my mother tongue. returning
to Taiwan in fourth grade mirrored this difficult transition. Some may
find me quiet and reserved, it’s because I learned to listen, and understand.
Yet when the time comes, I do take the initiative and let my voice
be heard, as my friends, teachers and parents can so often attest.
Years later, I was unanimously elected as the head of Taipei Wetnet,
a student-run organization that promotes environmental education and
awareness. We hold seasonal conferences on environmental matters for
students from all over northern Taiwan to participate. One story really
struck a chord in me.
For many years the Waimushan coastline was littered with thousands
of plastic beads used in the fabrication of plastic products. Wildlife
there mistook the beads as food and stuffed themselves to death. One
can see many half-decomposed animals filled with plastic beads in their
bodies. Our organization filed a report to local authorities requesting
an investigation. The mayor learned of this and bought truckloads of
sand to cover up the beach. This successful “cleanup” of the coast got
him re-elected a second term in office. Two months later, the extra layer
of sand was washed away by tides, re-exposing the plastic beads and
animals started dying again. We weren’t willing to settle for that. People
do not realize that whatever harm we do to the environment is ultimately
done on ourselves. This is what Taipei Wetnet tries to convey in all of
our activities. We started as just a few friends taking an excursion to the
beach, but now Taipei Wetnet has impact on the national level. We had
meetings on environmental policy and education with officials from the
presidential level. I am grateful to have been the head of Taipei Wetnet
during this extraordinary time. Of course, all my accomplishments, science
projects and environmental activities, do have their share of difficulties
and setbacks. It is through them that I learned the most.
For a student to do these things in Taiwan’s test-score-oriented culture
is considered a highly risky venture. My science project didn’t win
for several years in a row; I was warned to either stick to the traditional
path of cramming and testing, or “face the consequences.” Under
tremendous social pressure, I persisted, having faith that the skills I
gained are more important. I like the apprehension of waiting for data
to collect and the eventual thrill of seeing things finally turn out right,
especially an experiment you labored on for countless nights. I like the
satisfaction that what you are doing is making a difference in the world,
such as the life changing experience of participating in Taipei Wetnet’s
activities. Last year, my work was finally recognized in the world’s largest
scientific gathering, the Intel ISEF. They even named a celestial object
after me, the “minor planet” Hsingpenyuan, with others like Einstein
and Cleopatra. While gratifying, this experience only made me more
humble and dedicated. The average lifespan of a Taiwanese male is
around 70 years. Almost through one-third of it, I do not want to waste
the rest trying to be someone else. This is why my first choice is Duke.
What first caught my eye was the Focus Program, with its interdisciplinary
education and service learning opportunities. In fact, the
first paper I co-authored and presented was about Taipei Wetnet’s experience
in environmental service learning. A course in Duke’s special
research Service-Learning program will definitely be one I plan to take.
I am also very interested in Duke’s environmental science major. In
many schools, it would be great if it even has a minor in environmental
science or policy. In that case, they often lack actual hands-on training
and accumulation of field experience. However, the nicholas School’s
course and curriculum not only offers a solid education in basic science,
it also provides ample opportunity for field study through unique
facilities such as the Marine Lab and the Duke Forest. This is exactly
what I think how we should learn about the environment, by actually
doing something and seeing change. With Duke’s unique opportunities,
I can continue to do research starting from my first year. (Also
worth mentioning is the mild weather, definitely a plus for a Taiwanese
student like me!)
I look forward to becoming a Blue Devils fan, and perhaps even get
a Kville experience. I also love reading science fiction and playing the
piano. One great story I read was The Days Between by Allen Steele,
it’s about a man who suddenly woke up alone on a spacecraft that is 
still 200 years from its destination. Steele’s vivid description of how
the character coped with loneliness and his determination to survive
resonated within me. This also happens when I listen to Chopin. I try
to rush home before 10 each night, the unofficial time limit for playing
music in our apartment, to play the piano. Chopin’s music, torn with
great strife and conflict, yet with a romantically optimistic touch, is
something I could relate to, that I can share my feelings with. I would
love to take a Piano Course if I may come to Duke.
My unique qualities and experiences, so diverse yet intrinsically
intertwined, allowed me to become the first Taiwanese student ever
to receive the Ministry of Education’s full scholarship award to study
abroad. With full backing of this scholarship, I strongly believe that
armed with a strong Duke education, I will be able to make a difference
in the world.
Finally, I would like to express my deepest thanks for all the time
and effort you have placed in the application process. My mother is a
professor at the national Taiwan University who is agonizing right now
over their undergraduate applications. This, along with my own background
and experience helped me understand how difficult it must be
to make an admission decision, as it has the potential to change the
future of the world.
﻿My family has taken living in the big city as a reason for why
we should never give up. Here in Los Angeles there are countless individuals
and families along all points on the immigration spectrum from
recent arrivals to recent citizenship. residing in this great city has provided
me with diversity, opportunity, acceptance, and an abundance of
role models to follow through all troubles- big and small.
I always thought that I had it the worst out of all my family members
because I was never allowed to get anything lower than what my
brother or a cousin had gotten in a class. My parents figured if they
could do it, so could I, and if not on my own then with a little of their
help. It was not until recently that I realized the truth in this. In my
short life I have seen my father go from speaking no English, to excelling
in it. I have heard countless stories about migrant farmers such as
Cesar Chavez and my grandfather who had nearly nothing, yet persisted
and succeeded.
growing up hearing these stories of great injustices and misfortunes
has truly influenced my long term goals. I am going to go far because
there is no excuse for not doing my best, given all I have been blessed 
with. When I had trouble speaking Spanish and felt like abandoning
my native tongue I remembered my mother and how when she came
to the United States she was forced to wash her mouth out with soap
and endure beatings with a ruler by the nuns at her school for speaking
it. When I couldn’t figure out tangents, sines, and cosines I thought
about my father and how it took him nearly a year to learn long division
because he was forced to teach it to himself after dropping out and
starting to work in the 4th grade. And when I wanted to quit swimming
because I was tired I remembered my grandfather and how no matter
how his muscles ached if he stopped digging, or picking fruit, or
plowing he risked not having enough food to feed his family. Pursuing
technical fields such as math and engineering first seemed like work for
men to me, but the times have changed. All these people, just from my
family have been strong role models for me.
I feel that being labeled “underprivileged” does not mean that I am
limited in what I can do. There is no reason for me to fail or give up,
and like my parents and grandparents have done, I’ve been able to pull
through a great deal. My environment has made me determined, hard
working, and high aiming. I would not like it any other way. This is
how my Hispanic heritage, family upbringing, and role models have
influenced my academic and personal long term goals.﻿I wish I was invisible. I wish I was invisible. I wish I was invisible.
One of my biggest fears has always been going to an unfamiliar place,
but each time I have had the satisfaction of knowing that at the end of
the day I can go home. I am a shy person, and it has always been difficult
for me to adjust to a new environment. Transitioning from eighth
grade to high school was especially difficult for me because my high
school was, in fact, a boarding school, which meant that that feeling of
satisfaction was no longer present at the end of the day but postponed
to the end of the week. Living at LFA was a completely new world for
me and nothing I had experienced could have prepared me for it.
With confused eyes and nothing less than a nauseous sensation in
my stomach I entered my first day of high school. growing up, I had always
gone to school with people who looked like me, sounded like me,
and dressed liked me, but here I quickly learned that I was the minority.
I was not alone in this. Two of my friends came to LFA with me and,
with this in mind, my shyness and I did not think it necessary to make
new friends. Besides being one of the only schools with its own ice rink
and providing only the latest technology for its students, it suddenly
hit me that my new home had countless possibilities, but, before those
possibilities could be realized, I had to take initiative. I learned a very
important lesson at LFA: you will only get out of life as much as you
put into it. Stepping out of my comfort zone allowed me to discover an
interest and skill for volleyball and hidden leadership as the captain of
the Jv team. I became a tutor and friend for young Hispanic students 
at the nuestro Center, and they reminded me how important it is to
give back to the community. After numerous all nighters, I developed
a system where I could get all of my homework done and still be able
to get involved with sports and extracurriculars without having to sacrifice
any sleep time.
Towards the end of my sophomore year a family member’s sickness
unfortunately forced me to leave my school and return home. I left LFA
and joined my new family, Mirta ramirez Computer Science Charter
High School. Containing a student body that was 99 percent Hispanic,
I was no longer the minority. I had unconsciously become accustomed
to the LFA way of life because, in my mind, this tiny mustard yellow
building with no more than four windows could not possibly compare
to my old home. I was right. no, my new home was not as big nor as
fancy, but I discovered that was not a setback. Although the resources
were not directly visible nor as easily accessible, I learned that obstacles
did not exist for students there. Most, if not all, of the students had the
same hunger for knowledge as I had.
This summer my school announced that the building which we had
been using had fire code violations and we could not return to our
building in the fall. Throughout the summer my school did not have
a building and did not find one until a few weeks after school started.
By that time I had already taken a decision to, once again, leave my
home and join yet another family. What I realized on my first day at
Josephinum Academy, was that my shyness had not tagged along and
I was eager to go to school. The nauseous feeling had left my stomach
and enthusiasm had entered. I had already gained and learned so much
from the people I had met in my two previous schools that I could not
wait to continue my journey and embark on yet another discovery.
The knowledge that I have gained from these three schools is something
I will take with me far beyond college. My roommate, across-thehall
mates, and classmates have influenced my life as much as I hope
to have impacted theirs. It is evident to me that they have helped me
develop into the very much visible person I am today. I have learned to
step outside of my comfort zone, and I have learned that diversity is so
much more than the tint of our skin. My small mustard colored school
taught me that opportunity and success only requires desire.
I would be an asset to your college because as I continue on my
journey to success, I will take advantage of every opportunity that is 
available to me and make sure to contribute as much as I can too.
now I am visible. now I am visible. now I am visible, and I want to
be seen.﻿Growing up with seperated parents has not been the easiest
life, but it has been my life. When I was younger, I’d hate going out to
eat with my dad and seeing a family of four happily enjoying a meal.
If my mother and father ever went out together to a restaurant, it was
with me, once a year for my birthday, and was usually interspersed
with various disagreements.
It was when I was in first grade that I began to realize that, although
my parents had their differences and no longer loved each other, I was
the one thing that united them. I had no basis to be envious of what I
thought of as “complete” families.
Both my mother and father, wanting the best for me, recognized
early on my love and fascination with all things scientific. They worked
to create opportunities for me to pursue my interest. My mother would
read at bedtime, at my request, nature field guides instead of nursery
rhymes. The two of us often made long journeys at 3:00 A.M. to witness
meteor showers in the clear skies of the mountains. She encouraged me
to set up experiments around the house, which I happily did—measuring
the growth of palm tree saplings and dissecting owl pellets to
extract the mouse bones inside. An environmental scientist, my father
could not wait to transfer all of his scientific knowledge into my young
head. needless to say, many of his spontaneous lectures were far above
my grasp—I still vaguely remember a quantum physics talk he gave me
when I was eight—but they inspired me to learn more on my own.
My thirst for scientific knowledge grew over the years, without
limits in any one specific area. Then, in January four years ago, my 
Aunt Diane died after a five-year battle with breast cancer. It was during
my aunt’s illness that I realized I could use my natural love of science to
benefit others facing similar challenges.
I have continually pushed myself closer to this goal by excelling in
my AP science classes, studying biotechnology at UC Davis through the
COSMOS program, and competing as a member of my school’s Science
Bowl Team. This past summer, I had the opportunity to intern at the
reijo Pera Lab at Stanford University through the Stanford Institutes of
Medicine Summer research Program. During this two-month internship,
I worked with human embryonic stem cells to explore the function
of PrDM1, a potentially-useful gene in the creation of regenerative
medicines.
The scientific spark my parents recognized years ago has shaped my
life, and with it, I wish to shape the lives of others. I aspire to become a
biomedical researcher, a career that harnesses my long-time fascination
of science and my commitment to improve the quality of life for those
facing medical challenges. It would be a privilege to work alongside
scientists, exploring new treatments and technologies to create exciting
new options for patients and their families.﻿I have always been comfortable with Tae Kwon Do, music,
art, and friends. However, as a horse in Chinese astrology, I also need
to explore different pursuits, and step outside of my comfort zone. This
summer, I ventured beyond the pasture of my comfort zone, and participated
onstage in the high school summer musical for the first time.
The biggest challenge of taking this leap was overcoming my own
mental barrier—the sign that read, Jean, you have never had a dance
lesson; you have no idea how to sing or act. Out of fear that I would
feel uncomfortable, I believed that playing violin in the pit orchestra
was my calling. However, after three years of pit orchestra experience, I
longed to shine in that coveted spotlight. I did not tell my friends about
how I wondered what it would feel like to act onstage in front of eight
hundred people. When I saw that the title of the musical for this past
summer was Anything goes, I knew that no one would think worse
of me for following my aspirations. Confident that my friends would
encourage me, I let go of my cautious Chinese approach to life, and let
the free-spirited horse within me escape.
Despite my decision to participate in the musical, I was terrified. I
wondered whether I would meet any friends and if I would be able to
learn to sing and dance well. My fears were intensified because I missed
the first week of rehearsals while at a leadership conference in new
York City. When I attended my first rehearsal, arriving directly from
new York City, my fortitude kept me steady. With confidence and new
York City memories in my heart, I joined the rest of the cast and reveled
in the excitement. I followed my new friends with a passion for an art
form that I hardly knew, but willingly embraced.
From that moment on, I was a horse freely cantering around an
open meadow. I had discovered a new point of view, and the grass was 
greener than it had ever seemed. Some days, I came home with new
dance steps to show my parents. On other days, I drew the designs of
my costumes when my descriptions at the dinner table would not suffice.
The make-up artist tried three times to find the right blush, while
the hair team created a different style for me each night. Having to
think up a new hairstyle each time was parallel to my shifting opinion
of my life and self. Although participating in the musical was initially
petrifying, I discovered that taking such a risk was the optimal way to
grow and change.
now, I will not shy away from being in a musical cast because my
comfort zone is expanding. Soon it will encompass the grand scope
of my interests: from singing and dancing to throwing a sales pitch
in front of judges; from learning how to execute precision front-flips
to building my favorite piano repertoire; from designing a webpage
to arranging chamber music, or developing optics technologies. Such
passions will continue to define who I am and what I hope to achieve.
My character is being shaped and reshaped by my learning experiences
because I am an impressionable human being. As I continue to explore,
I know that my interests will solidify into a cohesive whole. Until then,
I seek to enrich myself with new opportunities and never look back.
Every family has its culture, all with aspects that brings them
together or drive them apart. I come from a Mexican family, where family
is the only thing we know. We share each other’s pain and misery
and we rejoice for our miracles. We learn and grow through each other. 
Even through the darkest days we survive as one. I witnessed those
dark days, but I also saw the bright and through it all I evolved into
who I am today.
I encountered one of my biggest obstructions when I was a child. I
was born into a family that had immigrated to America from Mexico.
Although my parents had been in the country for quite some time, they
never adapted to the American lifestyle. All I knew was Spanish and
my first year of school would soon come. I would sit at the end of my
driveway and listen to the variety of sounds that slowly crept into my
ear, triggered a reaction and sent confusion running through my mind.
Day after day, I would sit there trying to decode this puzzle word by
word and the day came when I’d be shipped off to school where I was
expected to know English. Kindergarten was one of the hardest years
in my life. I struggled tremendously. I was the last one to know my address,
I was the last one to know my phone number, and I was the one
who almost failed his first year of school. If it wasn’t for my father not
allowing the school to hold me back, I could have become a completely
different person. I struggled throughout my years in elementary school.
I went to resource and received help with my schoolwork until fourth
grade. I was given a big push forward and since then I have come to
realize that I may not be the only one in need. Others will need help
and I will be there with a helping hand.
Through the years, my family has undergone a variety of obstacles.
I saw my brother completely stumble and fall when he impregnated
his girlfriend at the age of sixteen. At the blink of an eye he became a
father to be and a husband. Everything came to a halt and he needed to
support another person. He worked during the night and finished high
school during the day. He struggled even while living at home. As if one
example in my house wasn’t enough, my sister was expecting a child
during her senior year. I remember the day when she told my parents, I
was in the room next door crying in pain because she fell into the same
trap my brother did. That was the end for her. She graduated from high
school and began to work. now she has two daughters and is trying to
make a living. It is hard to see the people you love make mistakes. It
is so hard, that it brings tears to my eyes, to know that you wish you
could say everything will be ok. They are stuck in a rut and I am putting
my best foot forward to give myself the future they don’t have.
When my mother was a child she had suffered a great amount. She
had become deaf in her teenage years. She lost complete ability to hear
in her right ear and partially in the left and to add to all the confusion
she was bound by a language. She was living in America with 4 of 5
senses and a tongue that many could not speak. Many would see this
as a huge dent in her life, but she managed to start a family. I could not
be any more proud of her and thankful for what she has given me. Her
“disability” placed a tremendous amount of pressure on my shoulders.
She was not able to go to the deli or to place phone calls when she
needed to. All of a sudden, all of this had become my responsibility. My
father was too busy breaking his back in order to support our family.
My mother’s personal translator, doesn’t sound too shabby? Standing
in the middle of the store, making hand jesters, mouthing out words,
or even yelling, does attract attention. In those moments I would feel
a surge of heat rush from head to toe, goose bumps in every possible
crevice of my body, and to top it all off I’d be seven shades darker than a
ripe tomato. Shame and embarrassment, how could I feel this way? All
this had become routine and the pain and embarrassment finally started
to subside, a whole new feeling started to emerge, pride. My mother
made me strong. She allowed me to become the man I am today. And
after all the pain there are still countless nights that I lie in bed, crying
due to the burden that was placed on her and the tremendous lesson I
learned. Every sound, every beat, every photon, every little everything
has been absorbed into me one way or another, yet these experiences,
although insignificant to others, mean to world to me. All these events
run through my veins and pump through my heart. I am the passion
that is rarely seen. I am the walking story of struggle.
I consider myself to be mature and focused in my life; I have
goals that I strive for and a strong commitment to my education.
However, I do have my more humorous moments, just as everyone
else. For instance, a few summers ago, my family and I were in Las
vegas on vacation. The over-the-top looking-by-night, eyesore-by-day
city was lighted everywhere, and masses of people were walking along
the Las vegas Strip. One night, we went out to dinner and were walking
back to our hotel. When we got to the entrance of the hotel, which
had automatic sliding doors, there was a huge line waiting to get in,
yet there were many other doors to its side unoccupied. So, naturally,
I said aloud, “Why don’t we just go through those doors,” as I pointed
towards the unoccupied doors. My family just waited patiently, but I
decided to go by myself, so I did, and I walked straight into the EXIT
door. I am not sure who was more injured, myself, or my sister who
collapsed onto the floor in convulsive laughter. I still have not heard
the end of this story, but at least now I can laugh at myself. Many times 
people get discouraged in their hectic and stress-filled lives, but sometimes
you just need a dim-witted accident to occur to put everything
in perspective.
Crime scene report
Crime: Missing Person
Location: Duke University, 2138 Campus Drive, Box 90586, Durham,
North Carolina 27708-0586
Time: October 2, 2008, 11:00 A.M.
Investigated by: Admissions Officers of Duke University
Case DescriptioN:
On the morning of October 2, 2008, at precisely 7:00 A.M., a Miss
Lauren Sanders began to worry. Her future-self entered the gates of a
prestigious university in the fall of 2009 and had not returned home.
Miss Sanders filed a missing person’s report, hoping someone could
help her to locate her future-self in a world of possibilities.
The case began with a grueling interrogation of Miss Lauren Sanders,
the person who knew most about her future-self. However, the questioning
session yielded little information. Miss Sanders could not fully
describe herself in the future. Pressured, she stated that “she has the
ambition to fulfill all of her goals, is both stubborn and industrious,
and wants to experience University life.” Miss Sanders lacked a photograph
of her future-self, but remarked that “she has brown hair, likes to
describe herself as vertically-challenged, and is usually smiling.”
nOTE: While unable to describe her future-self, Miss Sanders believed
that examination of past experiences could possibly assist the admissions
officers in the case. According to Miss Sanders, her future-self
has “volunteered in her community and traveled on a global scale.”
Physical evidence collected during a thorough search of Miss
Sander’s bedroom included a Dell laptop, a collection of Jane Austin
novels, worn textbooks, and an I-pod. Fingerprinting analysis and DnA
processing determined that these items belong to both Miss Sanders
and her future-self, and that they use these items frequently. Despite
biological traces of the future-self found within the home, laboratory
analysis concluded that Miss Sanders’ future-self does not reside within
her hometown.
With information gathered from the physical search of Miss Sanders’
home and Miss Sanders’ interrogation, a database search was conducted
to determine possible universities in which Miss Sanders’ future-self
resided. Within minutes, Duke University appeared as a match.
With this lead, authorities conducted numerous searches at Duke
University in Durham, north Carolina, probing the dorms, library, and
classrooms. All searches yielded nothing, yet the possibility of finding
Miss Sanders’ future-self remains strong. Professors and students alike,
when questioned about Miss Sanders’ future-self, strongly believe that
many individuals like her come to the University to find their potential
paths.
Further examination will be needed to complete this investigation,
including a thorough inspection of Miss Sanders’ resume and letters of
recommendation. Hopefully, the leads that we have will direct us to the
whereabouts of her future-self.
NOTE: According to Miss Sanders, the future-self plans to travel
on a foreign-exchange student program and hopes to conduct research
in one of the many labs available to undergraduates. At present, these
areas have not been searched by professionals.
On the morning of October 2, 2009, at precisely 7:04 A.M., the
admissions officers found Miss Lauren Sanders’ future-self at Duke
University. She had hidden in the incoming student body.
After spending a week with John Nash, I may have stumbled
upon a central purpose of my life. Well, not nobel Laureate John nash
himself, but whenever I describe Fred, their characteristics seem quite
parallel. Fred is unique, possessing an indomitable spirit to fulfill his
dreams without fear of failure. not only is he the most brilliant young
man I have ever met, he exhibits a genuinely compassionate heart. Sadly,
many people may never recognize Fred as the beautiful individual that
he is, or what he has to offer. While our society may call him “challenged,”
I have come to recognize him as an unexpected role model.
For Fred, you see, is autistic. He does not interact well with people, and
is often unable to express his thoughts clearly or articulately. He doesn’t
understand why people laugh at him. Yet even so, Fred is blessed with
an acute sense of purpose and caring that is unmatched by most—including
perhaps even the most altruistic among us.
Several years ago I traveled with a small group of Fairfax County
high school students to Portland, Oregon to compete as a Finalist in
the Intel International Science and Engineering Fair. I was excited at
what was certain to be an experience of a lifetime—having no clue that
the most valuable lesson would come not from the Science Fair itself,
but from Fred. Because of my prior experiences in working with special
needs children, the school administrators asked me to room with
Fred during the trip. I distinctly recall my initial anxiety and reluctance
about the prospect of taking care of another individual during the
stressful, high-pressure atmosphere of the competition. In retrospect,
though, this was the beginning of an incredible journey for both of
us—but especially for me.
Fred’s passion—actually more of an obsession—is theoretical mathematics.
He eats, breathes, talks, and probably sleeps mathematics, to
the point where he annoys others by his constant chatter about it. His
idea of fun is solving differential equations on a napkin in a fancy restaurant,
oblivious to others wanting to socialize or relax. That Fred is
brilliant is unquestioned, a fact that was clearly evidenced in his science
project where he solved a math problem previously believed by
experts to be insolvable. Yet in his own mind Fred firmly believed his
entire raison d’etre in life was the pursuit of math—and that he was
destined to use his incredible mathematical ability to help make the
world better.
However, Fred’s disabilities were only a fraction of the challenges
that faced him. growing up in a dysfunctional home, he suffered from a
lack of love and patient understanding. Still, Fred’s life revolved around
his relationships and mathematics. Although he has few close friends,
people are indescribably important to him, and he always treated them
with sensitivity and compassion. Unfortunately, some people—including
but not limited to his peers (who can sometimes be quite cruel)—
are unable to set aside their prejudices long enough to see his uniqueness
as the incredible gift that it is. His enthusiasm and his indomitable
spirit in the face of adversity taught me valuable lessons—lessons I will
carry with me for the rest of my life. He taught me to live for what you
truly cherish, to be passionate about your dreams, and to always smile
in both the service of others and adversity. He has shown me the truest
meaning of love for others, and the ability to understand and always 
live for what is important. A trip that started with me “taking care of
him” turned into a trip of substantial personal discovery.
Children with special needs have powerful talents, and if we could
only open our hearts to hear their voices, we would learn what it means
to live without conventional boundaries. I have lived a week with a
genius, not only of the mind, but more importantly, of the heart—and
my life has been permanently changed because of Fred.
I grew up in a four-room apartment in the middle of Beijing at
the turn of the twentieth century. Common household features such
as the existence of stairs within a house were thought of as decadent
luxuries representative of the incredibly wealthy. My life was simple. At
five years old, it was differentiated by two things, the times I was with
my mother and the times I was not.
My single mother was a chemist and professor at the University of
Beijing. Even at a young age, she distinguished herself from her peers 
with her remarkable ambition and intense passion for learning. From
growing up in the frigid winds of northern Mongolia, to becoming one
of three students to earn a full scholarship to China’s most competitive
university, to working as a government-sponsored chemist in goslar,
germany, my mother accomplished more before I was born than most
people achieved in a lifetime.
Unfortunately, I would not learn of the fabulous successes and arduous
trials of my mother until much, much later. All I could understand
or not understand at five years old was why my mother was rarely
home, why I did not see her for three months during the summer when
I lived with my grandparents, and why I was forced to go to a daycare
owned by a tyrannical monster who would tell ghost stories to make
me cry. Even now, much of my knowledge about my mother’s early life
is something I am still piecing together. As was the case then, my full
understanding of her brilliant yet ill-tempered persona is continually
hindered by the simple troubles of life. Although now, they are the issues
of an eighteen-year old teenager rather than those of a five-year
old child.
I remember nights we would spend together when she was busy
with her research and classes; I would sit in a desk next to her, drawing
pictures and imagine that I was her personal assistant. I also remember
times when I had to stay home alone because she had a
lecture to give or errands to run; I would lean against the window sill
staring down into the bleak, concrete streets waiting and watching
for the return of a petite form in a bright red jacket. Yet despite the
forlorn days and the lonely nights, I feel neither regret nor resentment
towards those early years or my mother. On the contrary, I am incredibly
proud and grateful for all the difficulties she endured in order
to raise me properly. Had it not been for my childhood experiences,
I would not have matured at such an early age or developed such a
strong sense of independence.
We moved to America in the spring of 1997. The transition of cultures
was daunting yet it failed to dishearten my mother. Like every
other experience in her life, she treated the move as an opportunity.
However, even my mother was not immune to the overwhelming cultural
shock, and despite her perseverance and accomplishments, she
continually struggled with the language barrier and the difference in
societal values.
While my mother was forced to labor against such changes, my
young age enabled me to adapt quickly to the new environment.
Unfortunately, my “Americanization” has caused a great deal of mystification
and incomprehension in my mother. not only do our manners
of speaking differ, but we no longer view traditional beliefs the same
way. Her lack of encouragement for my participation in athletics and
her excessive emphasis on my grades have been both frustrating and
upsetting. From my gregarious nature and social outings to my obdurate
refusals to comply with her every long-established demand, she
has been forced to accept the evolution of her daughter from that of
Chinese doll to American teenager.
nevertheless, despite our various differences and my acute assimilation
into another culture, I have never lost sight of what mattered
most to me, nor forgotten the roots of my heritage and rigorous upbringing.
My mother’s persistence and endurance are qualities which I
have proudly assumed and carried with me in every activity of my life.
From facing the ignorant racisms of elementary classmates to the malicious
jealousies of middle school peers, I have never doubted or second
guessed the work ethic and moral code that she instilled in me. Her resourcefulness
has also been highly influential and taught me of the importance
of seeking opportunities. Whether it was working along side
Philadelphia Inquirer journalists or researching marketing strategies for
a startup company, I have learned and developed with each success and
letdown encountered throughout my middle and high school years.
The difficulties of my mother and the difficulties that I faced in two
countries on two continents continue to define and shape my personality
and character. As mother and daughter continue along the journey
of life, I hope that she can come to accept and embrace the daughter
whom she has so diligently raised while I hope to slowly unravel the
full mystery that is my mother and, one day, finally comprehend and
appreciate the entirety of her effect on my life.
AS I sat at a table in the corner of a cafe, hunched over a press release
I was writing, I asked myself, “Why is a youth advocate from Long
Island, halfway around the world in South Africa this summer, debating
issues of sustainable development at a United nations conference?”
I needed to meet a deadline for the Youth Caucus at the World Summit
on Sustainable Development (WSSD) after an exhausting but exhilarating
day of lobbying. My goal was to help persuade world leaders at the
largest United nations conference in history that pursuing sustainable
development is essential for the future of our planet. Because I had attended
a previous Un conference about children’s rights, I understood
the importance of sustainable development in this context. Then, I was
chosen to represent SustainUS, a national network of American youth,
at the WSSD. I raised all of the money needed for my trip. I was thrilled
to witness the human spirit in its purest sense, taking collective action
to care for the less fortunate around the globe.
It was one thing to debate language in the conference document
about goals set to provide people in developing nations with access to
water. It was quite another to visit Soweto, only a few kilometers away
from the conference, and to meet poor Africans living in shanties with
limited access to water. This observation embedded in my mind the
seriousness of my work in a way that no statistic could describe. The
challenge on paper seemed quite different from the harshness of Soweto
and Alexandria and the long-suffering faces and pleading eyes of the
beggars there. I reminded myself that I needed to work around the
clock while I was in South Africa to help these impoverished people.
After arriving in Johannesburg this past August, I traveled to the
International Youth Summit. I drafted the youth declaration which was
used for lobbying, and I helped to write a statement from the youth
delegates for government representatives to read and consider while
negotiating. While at the WSSD, aside from writing daily press releases
that became Associated Press and reuters articles, I drafted speeches
which were presented to the delegates, including over one hundred
heads of state. I experienced an adrenaline rush when I fielded questions
from reporters during a press conference. These challenging situations
were new learning opportunities for me and provided me with
knowledge much different from what one learns in high school. I want
to learn more about the histories of international financial institutions
and the ways they interact with national governments.
As a result of my attending the World Summit, I have gained a
new perspective on global politics and its effects on people’s lives. The
thought that people from around the world can join together to solve a
global issue never fails to impress and inspire me.
My participation in the WSSD has taught me more about the convergence
of politics, international relations and the environment than
I have learned in any other activity or in the classroom. Working with
others to reveal the crucial need for sustainable development is essential
to our world’s successful future. All of my experiences have helped
me to understand how international meetings operate and to accept the
responsibility that comes with the privilege to attend and contribute to
the solution.
November 23, two years ago: Thanksgiving. My mom and
I celebrated the holiday as we had done for the last three years—by
delivering turkey dinners to homebound senior citizens. After carrying
the food to their kitchens, our brief visits with them were filled with
laughter, hugs, and the sharing of family photo albums. In the midst of
all the warmth and vitality, though, I couldn’t help noticing the signs of
loneliness and isolation: the windows with dust suggesting they hadn’t
been open in ages, the faded Christmas cards from 1995, and the tables
with a single place setting. It was during these visits that I committed to
find a way to better connect with the seniors in my community.
I discussed my desire with the mayor of Fremont in December two
years ago. He agreed that a younger voice could prove to be beneficial
and mentioned the Senior Citizen Commission for the City of Fremont
(an advisory board to City Council that worked to directly address the
needs of local seniors). I formally applied to the Commission and was
unanimously appointed by City Council in February last year, becoming
the youngest Commissioner in Fremont’s history.
Although I was initially met with skepticism from my fellow Senior
Citizen Commissioners, I was committed to sharing my vision of the
benefits of intergenerational interactions. For the next two months, my
after-school hours were devoted to calling nursing homes, negotiating
with movie theater managers, and recruiting teen volunteers. The
resulting event was the Senior Movie Outing, which paired teenagers
with wheelchair-bound seniors for a fun afternoon at the movies.
As a result of my hard work on the successful outing and the rave
reviews from all who participated, my fellow Commissioners became
more respectful of my contributions and open to my input. During the
annual grant-reviewing period (when the Commission decides which 
non-profit organizations will receive City funding), I advocated to fund
Lavender Seniors, an organization which supports gay and lesbian seniors.
While it had not previously been funded by the City, I strongly
believed it fell within the Commission’s charter of “serving the needs of
all seniors.” After sharing my rationale for proposing to fund Lavender
Seniors, I was proud that the Commissioners kept an open mind and
the majority voted to grant the organization funding.
In the two years since my appointment, I have cherished the unique
opportunities I have had to learn from people with different perspectives
and backgrounds. My time on the Commission has taught me to
be more confident when expressing my ideas, and to be more open to
hearing others’ thoughts. I am proud to be a trusted voice for seniors
in my community.
At my age, few peopLe can genuinely claim that they have had
a life-changing experience. After attending Leadership in the Business
World (LBW) at the Wharton School last summer, I became one of
those fortunate people to have experienced a life-changing academic
program. Four weeks of meeting business executives, working with
teammates through the night perfecting our professional business plan,
experiencing the independence and responsibility that will come with
college . . . none of this was advertised in the brochure for LBW, but all
of this is what made it uniquely meaningful to me.
The business leadership program centered on one culminating activity:
the prestigious LBW Business Plan Competition. As we prepared
for this, we heard from Wharton faculty members and many corporate
heavyweights including Brian roberts, CEO of Comcast Corporation.
Meeting educators, executives and entrepreneurs broadened my
knowledge of business, created a strategic network of connections and
proved profoundly inspiring; nothing motivates me more than see-
ing hard work and sharp thinking reach fruition. I vividly remember
when a managing director of a venture capital firm singled me out for
a networking demonstration. Expecting me merely to pretend to hand
him a fake business card, he was dumbfounded by impressed when he
glanced back as he accepted an actual business card from my tutoring
business. As my business card now rested in Mr. Kimmel’s rolodex
next to elegant cards from established businesspeople, a lesson was
ingrained in my mind about acting uniquely in order to distinguish
myself in a field of equally qualified and eager peers.
Despite the inherently competitive nature of LBW, I established
enduring friendships with students from far-reaching places, such as
Shanghai and Accra. We shared stories over meals in Houston Hall
about life at home and engaged in heated discussions about business
ethics. regardless of the origin of our passports, we became a family
while learning about each other’s cultures and future business aspirations.
The lessons of compassion and hard work from the business
plan competition also heightened my experience. Once when a fellow
marketing officer was struggling with determining channels of distribution
for our product, I disregarded trying to seem individually superior,
and we cooperatively tackled the problem. Putting the team before the
individual was a concept that materialized itself during my experience.
The bonds between all of the students and advisors spurred my entrepreneurial
spirit as I experienced how friendship supports business.
I knew this experience had changed me forever when I triumphantly
concluded our team’s business presentation, confidently promoting
our product and connecting with a crowd of peers and venture capitalists.
During the evening following the presentations, my fellow teammates
and I beamed with boundless relief and pride when the vCs
announced our team, EnTECH LLC, as the first place winners of the
competition. Exploring and honing my business and entrepreneurial
skills was intimidating initially, yet with creativity, hard work and an
unparalleled group dynamic of cooperation, this experience cemented
my passion for business and opened grand doors of opportunity.
“All I know about leadership I learned from . . .” What items could a person
use to describe leadership qualities?
Inspired by the student council advisors at my high school.
Sstudent council was a big part of my life in high school. I
have participated in it since my first year of high school. When I first
joined, I was quiet, naïve, and unwilling to participate in many activities.
I was scared to meet new people and afraid to apply myself. This
all began to change. Half way through my first year in student council,
one of the advisors can up to me and asked why I did not participate
that much. I did not have an answer for her and did not know how to
respond. After this, I began to think of an answer. I became frustrated
and decided to change. I started to show up at events and had a great
time. I realized I loved this and wanted to start leading these activities.
In my sophomore, junior, and now my senior year of high school, I asserted
myself and took on a strong leadership role in student council.
I did not figure out the answer to why I was so reserved until this year
with the help of this question.
When I looked up leadership in the dictionary, it said that it was the
capacity to lead and the act or instance of leading. These are two very
broad definitions of leadership. Many people have different notions of
what this word actually means. When I was challenged to use different
items to describe what leadership actually is, I thought this was going
to be a hard and obnoxious task. What could I learn from comparing
leadership to a stuffed animal or a rubber chicken? But when I sat 
down to come up with a couple of answers, I realized that leadership
could be compared to almost anything a person wants.
All I know about leadership I learned from a calculator. A calculator
can add everything together to come up with the best answer. It can
delete what is unnecessary and only include what is important. It can
solve any type of problem. These are all important equalities a leader
has to have. A leader has to be able to add all of the ideas together to
make the best possible plan. Leaders have to know how to decipher the
good and the bad out of an idea. They have to be versatile and know
how to deal with different types of issues.
All I know about leadership I learned from a ball. A ball is able to
bounce back up after it is dropped. It is round and has no creases. A
ball can be thrown back and forth to different people. All of these qualities
are also leadership qualities. A leader has to be ready for every situation
that is thrown at him or her. He or she has to be able to bounce
back from any setbacks and never dwell on the past. Leaders have to
exhibit many qualities and never be closed-minded about a situation.
A leader must be able to delegate when he or she cannot get the work
done. They have to trust everyone they lead to be able to “catch the
ball” and keep a project rolling.
This activity made me realize that being a leader is so much more
than just having authority and having the ability to take control of a
situation. A leader has to be trusting of all the people he or she leads
and, leaders must be able to combine ideas into one encompassing
idea. They cannot sit in the background and watch events happen; they
have to jump in and be involved. They should not delegate all their
responsibilities away.
Leadership is more than what the dictionary says it is.
I learned through all of this that I have many of these qualities.
I have the ability to solve problems, lead through adversity, and be
versatile. From answering this question, I realized that I could lead effectively,
even if my leadership style is different from other individuals.
When I joined student council in my first year of high school, I did
not have these qualities because I was never put into a situation where
I had to lead. I was too reserved to try. When I tried, I learned that I
could succeed in this. I did not realize until I answered this question
about leadership. I was never able to see that being a leader is not just
about taking control of a group and telling everyone what to do. When 
I was a freshman, I thought leadership was this. I did not know that I
did not have to be forceful and strict. I stereotyped a leader then. This
is where I went wrong. A leader is about being yourself and never letting
anyone change you. I thought I had to change to be a good leader.
Only when I expanded my comfort zone did I realize this was not true.
It only took three years and a silly question/game to figure this out.
People say that inner beautfy matters more than outer beauty.
But when I looked into the mirror and saw my face covered with
unsightly blemishes, it was hard to tell myself that and believe it. By
the time I entered high school, my acne had gotten worse, and my
self-esteem was at an all-time low. So in the summer of ninth grade, I
embarked on an unexpectedly difficult and emotionally trying quest
for clear skin, an experience that culminated in one of my proudest
achievements.
My typical daily diet consisted of sugary cereal for breakfast; salty
turkey sandwiches, soda, and chips for lunch; a candy bar for snack;
and rice and fried noodles for dinner. I never thought that my diet
would be a cause of my acne, but the possibility first came to me when
I was reading a skincare article. Desperate for a cure, I searched “clear
skin diet” on the Internet. The websites that turned up all echoed the
same message: a balanced and healthy diet is crucial for beautiful skin.
The recommended foods listed included large portions of fruits, veg-
etables, grains, nuts, and fish; 8 glasses of water daily and only small
amounts of high-sodium, high-fat, and high-sugar foods. I researched
further and found out that the expensive chemical cleansers that I
had been using were not the answer—gentle face washes and a coat
of sunblock were inexpensive products that could reduce breakouts. I
knew that changing my entire diet and skincare routine would require
a tremendous amount of commitment and willpower. But determined
to improve my skin and my self-confidence, I began to transform my
lifestyle. I started by incorporating fruits and vegetables into my meals
and replacing sugary cereal with whole grains, chips with carrots, and
fried noodles with salmon. For a long, painful week, I stuck to this diet
and restrained myself from any junk food. My skin condition changed
gradually but substantially. By the end of the week, my skin was noticeably
smoother, clearer, and brighter. Yet I found myself relapsing,
unable to continue for long without indulging myself, unable to swallow
the horribly plain salads and chewy carrots. Every time I stopped,
the acne came back. It came to the point where I despised the acne and
coveted the clear skin enough to force myself back on track. It became
an excruciating pattern of cravings and self-restraint. I struggled with
these two impulses until I became used to healthy eating, even enjoying
it. now, two years later, my skin is better than ever and I have never
gone back to eating the way I had before.
I have no awards or medals to show for my particular achievement.
But no academic distinction in the world can match what I gained from
my experience with changing my diet: healthier skin, self-confidence,
and newfound mental strength. Above all, I realized that by improving
my outer appearance, I had enriched my inner appearance.
The Hindu god, Brahma, seeing the plight of a society tainted
by envy and greed, presents a boy with a drum that he can only hear,
not see. This instrument, which is supposed to bring patience and discipline
to humanity, is the foundation of Indian classical music. The
boy has yet to discover that musicians use this tool to speak, allowing
their minds to transmit messages through the vibrant pulsations of
their notes.
My guru told me this story when I began learning the tabla, a north
Indian classical drum. Though he never revealed the ending, he offered
one clue. “It doesn’t matter how fast your hands can beat the drum if
your mind cannot keep up with them.”
A typical American teenager, I had always yearned for raw strength
and speed on the tabla. I thought those were the qualities that made the
perfect percussionist. During concerts, I saw musicians’ fingers gliding
across the head of the drum producing the extraordinary impression of
force, immediacy of genius and intensity of passion that left audiences
spellbound. I knew that to become the best at tabla, I needed to display
my talent in a similar way. I wanted to play equally as fast and forcefully,
even if it meant sacrificing precision for power.
I asked my guru to train me to play like the maestros, but he said I
lacked mental focus; I didn’t listen to or enjoy my music. He believed
the mind and body must be in sync in order to master the instrument.
I never fully understood this concept until the imagination of one visually
handicapped child attuned my mind to the beat of the drum.
As a summer volunteer at the Braille Institute in Anaheim, I developed
the musical talents of blind elementary school children through
teaching the tabla. My friends and I bought instruments and music
with the money that we made during a summer recycling program in
our neighborhood. During our first class, the children jumped into action,
thumping erratically on their instruments. I chuckled at the sight
of nine jubilant youngsters producing musical mayhem.
Chaandni was different. Shy and reserved, she felt the drum’s
smooth texture and stroked the soft middle portion of the drum head.
I stood astonished as she performed her ritual. Tap. Listen. Smile. Tap. 
Listen. Smile. I could see her contemplating the emerging rhythm and
resonance of each successive pulse. Watching a budding musician feel
the delicate timbre of each drumbeat is a thrilling sensation.
I learned more from observing than I did through years of erratic
practice. Chaandni would eagerly listen to a musical piece, then strike
incessantly until she produced a matching pitch. When she stumbled,
she would sit patiently pinpointing her mistake. She didn’t speak; her
insight and emotion glowed through her music. For the first time in
my life I felt the depth of the drums. For the first time, I truly comprehended
and loved the instrument.
She was indeed a special soul. Her curiosity was insatiable; her regard
for the drum was incomparable; her smile was inspiring. Her joyful
progress inspired me to perform in London this summer with my
guru. Driven by the spirit of a young girl who never let her disability
impede her innate talent, I played gracefully in front of hundreds of
spectators and cherished the inner triumph.
I am a living example of Brahma’s story. The combination of grace
and force on the tabla is my channel for communicating emotions. My
tale ends with the appreciation that the mind is a beautiful vehicle for
the drum.
I used to spend countless nights wide-eyed, anxiously dreading
a high school life teeming with harsh peers and hollow hallways,
immersed in a cold atmosphere eternally void of familiarity’s warm
embrace. I’ll admit that this is not a hopeful vision; nevertheless, I cer-
tainly risked accepting this ugly reality when I supported my family’s
decision to uproot itself and move from new Jersey to Florida after my
freshman year.
Somewhat flexible, my parents gave me a significant voice in the
decision as I would be most profoundly affected. Yet, I had spent my
entire life in the same cozy center-hall colonial in the same new Jersey
suburb. I had known my friends since youth, when we had snowball
fights during the icy winter and ran through lawn sprinklers during
the summer. Teachers knew my family and cordially greeted me in the
halls. I could never move. In my mind, I was set!
Or was I? Instinct tugged at my heart, something was missing in
my life because life is not about being “set.” Lured by the concept of a
fresh start, I yearned for the chance to write my own story. As the son of
Indian immigrants, I had adventure in my blood; the time had come to
venture beyond my comfort zone and stake a unique claim in Florida.
The first few months were trying; only birds joined me during lunch
and I spend weekends alone writing introspective poetry. My fifteenth
birthday centered on a family discussion about our affection for our
new home while Hurricane Charley pounded the life out of Florida.
I regretted moving. By fortuitous research, however, I learned more
about innovative entrepreneurs who were shaping our world. I have
not looked back since.
My self-inflicted adversity finally evoked personal growth. I constantly
introduced myself to strangers and pursued my passions in
different activities. By launching and supporting community organizations,
I transformed into a proactive leader as I overcame difficulties
in varied contexts. Continuously seeking challenges in the community
and IB Program, I teamed up with other motivated citizens and students
to thrive and contribute to my new home.
Today I am highly involved in my community with many friends
and mentors. nobody knows me for my family or childhood, just for
who I am today. The results of my own decisions and actions mean
much more than what has been bestowed upon me. I would risk it
all again because I know that I can only enjoy what I have earned.
Breaking away from the risk-averse crowd that holds an exaggerated
fear for what can be lost has been refreshing. I have gained trust in myself
to defy odds because I never would have dreamt of the happiness
and accomplishments that I have been honored to achieve in Florida. 
College will certainly thrust a fiercer Hurricane Charley at me, but I
will stare it straight in the eye and exceed expectations, eventually leaving
an enduring legacy for the world through my entrepreneurial and
philanthropic endeavors.
A thin shard of sunlight cut through the vent of the windowless,
cold, and cramped one bedroom basement apartment. The
apartment stood three stories high with its weight suffocating the basement.
I sat on the stained carpet, alone, playing with my one and only
prized Hot Wheels car. My mother was working her ten-hour shift as a
minimum wage waitress and my father was nowhere to be found. My
father left our family when I turned three-years old. He also left the
burden of his reckless gambling debt to my mother and left us to fend
for ourselves. At the time, my mother barely spoke any English, yet she
had to find work in order to support us. She became occupied with
work, so I was frequently isolated at home. The house on Wellington
Avenue in Daly City evolved to represent all the suppression my mother
and I endured. As a child, wherever I could go to be away from the
cell, I went.
A few days after my eleventh birthday, I trudged home on an afternoon
to discover our house robbed again, this time of my mother’s
savings for the following month’s rent and my new “Stingray 5000”
water gun. I burst into tears and cried in my mother’s fragile arms. It
was that moment I vowed to do something about our situation. I was
tired living in that horrid house, being deprived of my mother because
of her demanding work schedule, and feeling like the whole world was
constantly against us. Early in my childhood, I realized that our family
was financially poor, because of that, I wanted to be rich in knowledge.
Every day after school, I would take the transit to the Daly City Public
Library where I could be away from the miserable house and focus on 
my studies. It was there that I would max out my library card to read
Harry Potter novels and sit at the wide tables with my head in textbooks
and magazines, searching for a better life. My mother knew the anger
I had for the house, as a result, she would indirectly encourage me to
channel out my negative feelings for the house into positive ones for
learning by dropping by the library after work with apple juice for me.
My appreciation for my mother is great because she still managed to set
time aside from her work to attend to my needs. My objective was to
gain all the knowledge I could, in hope of devising a plan to get us out
of the Wellington Black Hole. At one point, I spent a whole Saturday
looking for some sort of mathematical equation that would cure our
blight. Enriching my knowledge was my naïve way of trying to improve
and control our bleak situation. Fortunately, my mother’s relentless effort
for work allowed us to move to a better part of Daly City.
When I finally got my driver’s license at the age of sixteen, after a
vigorous curriculum of driver’s education, driving lessons, and a driving
test, the first place I drove my mother’s old Toyota Camry was to
the house on Wellington Avenue. The freedom of driving allowed me to
explore a place where I had been trapped in for so long. Crouched on
the warm cement, I glanced pass the faded wooden walls and peered
through the constricting vent to see the three year old that once sat on
the cold floor. As I stood with the sun shining on my back, I acknowledged
that my mother and I were given a situation that we did not
choose, but we ultimately became the ones who changed the course of
our lives. A photo of the Wellington house sits on my bedroom window
edge, casting a small shadow when sun light beams in. It serves as a
painful reminder of my background, and an inspiration to continue
excelling in life, even when unfavorable conditions dominate.
I sat there, stunned for an instant, and then jumped as high as
I could and screamed as loud as my voice would allow. Blood rushed
through my entire body, while the butterflies in my stomach finally
flew away. I had just received my LAMDA Diploma with Honors, a task
that has only been done by one person before me. LAMDA, the London
Academy of Music and Dramatic Arts, comes to my high school, as
well as others in the states, and gives what are essentially acting exams.
In these exams, you must perform a series of monologues, and to
receive the Diploma you must perform four five-minute monologues,
one pre-1910, one post-1980, one Shakespearean, and one of your
choice. I had worked for weeks on my monologues, perfecting them as
much as I could, staying after school, working at lunch, even at home,
despite the shouting by my sister for me to stop. When it came time
to perform, I was incredibly nervous; however, after I came out of my
performance, I lingered outside the theater, waiting upon my results,
and when they came, I was astounded. not only was I able to pass my 
exam, but also I came out of it with greater knowledge of theater than
I had when I started. I learned a great deal from taking these various
exams, most notably the age old lesson that hard work does pay off.
The personal splendor I felt was one that I had never felt before, and I
live to feel it again.
Music has shaped my intellectual life in many
ways. Music is a common language that connects me to others who
share my enthusiasm for creating it. Furthermore, I learn about my
own preferences and personality through the pieces that intrigue me.
As I expose myself to a wider array of styles and eras, my musical tastes 
grow more complex. Through music, I welcome opportunities to expand
my friendships as well as my instrumental horizons.
I began studying piano at age six. For the next five years, my mother
lived vicariously through my musical education, which her family had
not been able to afford. In fifth grade, as I was becoming an earnest
piano student, I was selected to commence violin lessons and play in
my elementary school orchestra. From that day on, I saw life from a
violinist’s point of view.
Although I am a seasoned pianist, an ambitious solo violinist, and a
fledgling cellist, I am, above all, a passionate chamber musician. My experience
in a chamber quartet has had a strong impact on my character.
When I was the second violinist, I simply enjoyed making music with
my friends. Only after I became the first violinist did I feel the responsibility
of leadership settling uncomfortably on my shoulders. However,
the burden soon became a part of me and transformed into enthusiasm.
now, as the quartet leader, I use the small group setting to channel each
of our individual creative instincts. Each member of the quartet shares
her musical interests, bringing favorite repertoire to the table, so that
we each participate in the learning and playing experience. The quartet
is also an outlet for my musical fancy. Ever since I discovered the
Finale music writing software, I have delighted in arranging works for
our quartet to play and perform. This year, my goal is to arrange and
perform the Ferrante and Teicher version of the love theme from The
Godfather for a piano duet and orchestra.
As my aspirations grow, I aim to arrange music for a greater variety
of instruments and to explore jazz, pop, and other styles of music
on the piano. I desire to join others with similar talent and passion at
Duke. However, before I leave my high school, I hope my appreciation
for music will leave a mark on my community.
I ran around nervously, yelling at my parents to wait downstairs;
I did not want them to see anything that was going on. I rushed
as fast as I could to make my bed, something most teenagers do not
usually do. I made sure everything was in proper order as I called my
parents up to my room. As I placed the last pillow on the bed, I acquired
a sense of completion and achievement. I had done it; I designed
and redecorated my bedroom. It was at this point when I, in my
heart, became an interior designer.
This picture represents more than just a bedroom to me; it is my
first step on a path that I hope directs me to fulfillment. Designing
my bedroom allowed me to explore the creative aspect of my life, and
I was, and still am, able to appreciate the amount of creative talent I
possess. It has become an intense passion in my life and I value this a
great deal. This process illustrated the creative potential that I possess
within myself, and I know that I can apply this promise in any aspect
of my life.
One of the greatest features of this project I took on is that I was able
to see the results of my actions immediately. It was a hands-on experience
that I enjoyed to its fullest, and I was exultant with the outcome.
Overall, this project was a great success in my eyes, and even in the
eyes of my family and friends who are amazed at my capabilities with
design. However, as the designer, I do get frustrated with infinitesimal
flaws. On the wall to the left of my bed there are two shelves and
framed artwork that I created myself. In the process of the installation, I
centered these shelves and artwork on the wall; however, the palm tree
that I placed in the corner covers up one of the frames. I now know that
it probably would have been better if I moved the shelves and artwork
to the left of the wall. The importance of this is not the flaw itself, but in
the fact that I learned from what I had done and know how to improve
myself the next time. Overall, I feel the room came out beautifully and
it symbolizes my first true triumph with design.
Though this project meant a great deal to me emblematically, I
also just had fun with it. Utilizing my imagination, and figuring out
how I was going to make things work within the room was simply 
enjoyable. not only was the design process pleasurable, but also the
actual painting, nailing, and organizing itself was satisfying. I was also
able to bond with my father through the project. He joined me in my
most successful achievement of the room—the design and creation of
the headboard. This venture and this picture epitomize my success. I
consider my bedroom to be an elegant, contemporary work of art, and
this picture embodies all the work I put into my design as well as the
sense of achievement I received after its completion.
I stood behind the curtains, listening to the applause to the
previous act. I exhaled, realizing that this was a moment that fulfilled
my childhood wish. Tonight was special because instead of an alto aria
or a jazz lick, I had prepared a song unique to my identity. I curled my
fingers around the microphone and waited impatiently as the curtains
opened.
My love for performance stemmed from my appreciation of music
as a child. In the city in China where I spent the first ten years of my
life, I never found a choir to join and never laid eyes on a grand piano.
nonetheless, I treasured my passion for song and sought ways to bring
music into my life. I sang with our old record player when I was barely
tall enough to reach it. On certain afternoons, my best friend and I
would tape bed sheets to the ceiling as curtains and invite neighbors to
come listen. There, we sang in duet, danced, and bowed while clasping
each other’s hands. Captured in our own musical sanctuary, we never
noticed the hours that passed by.
Music evokes in me the emotions that words and pictures cannot.
I also revel in the intellectual challenges that music offers. I find it
thrilling to tackle difficult, delicious repertoire, and I enjoy composing
my own melodies. Through music, I can share and celebrate my past.
When I was asked to share my cultural talents at my high school, I
looked for a song that my mother sang when I was young, but I could
not find the sheet music. A week before tonight, I sat down by the old
piano in the practice room at school. With only the old tune ringing
faintly in my mind, my hands soon took a life of their own and experimented
with chords, arpeggios, and trills. I superimposed these on the
original melody and composed variations. My voice, too, frolicked with
the piano as I sang the tune repeatedly. I was lost in another musical
paradise. I felt like a child again, tucked under the covers, listening to
my mother’s song as I drifted away to dreams.
now, dressed in an old Chinese dress that my mother had worn
in her youth, I stepped onto the empty stage illuminated by pale blue
light. I held the microphone up to my lips and smiled before starting.
Then, I brought to life the beautiful ballad that had brightened my 
childhood in China. My mind overflowed with warm memories of that
faraway city as I lulled the audience with my melody. When I caught
my mother’s face in the audience, I knew she nestled in the same air of
nostalgia.
Music allows me to present my native culture and contribute to the
diversity in my community. It has stimulated my mind and provided an
outlet for my creativity. To me, nothing is more pleasurable than being
imaginative. Carrying my childhood love of music through my teenage
years has been a gratifying experience, and I look forward to continuing
in my undergraduate years.
The summer before my freshman year and again two years later, we
spent two weeks in Costa rica, living with families there and working
both helping build a renovation on a church there and playing with
children in a refugee settlement called Pavas. The year in between, we
ran a day camp for underprivileged children in San Antonio, Texas, and
the summer before my junior year, we did various kinds of service in
Columbus, Ohio. For our winter trips, we have done urban outreach
in new York City and in Miami, trying to use those experiences to help
our downtown church improve its outreach ministries. My service experience
with church goes beyond these trips twice a year, though. I
spend several evenings each year volunteering in the homeless shelter
in my church’s gym both with youth group and with my family. We also
go as a family each year early on Christmas morning to serve breakfast
at the shelter and celebrate the holiday with the guests. These are pieces
of the categories I call “Central Presbyterian Church youth group” and
“Community Service” that I didn’t have space for in the box, but that
mean a lot to me and play huge roles in my life.
Another experience that I haven’t found a space for is the Maine
Coast Semester, the four months I spent on Chewonki neck in Maine
during the fall of my junior year. Although my essay provides one snapshot
of the experience, it cannot possibly speak to everything the semester
meant to me. Moving out of my family’s house and into a cabin
with six girls my own age was extremely exciting for me, and what
I found when I got there was even better than what I had expected.
It was a place I could relate to. In science class, we would learn to
identify the trees and wildlife that were living just outside our cabins.
In the afternoon, working on the farm, we would lovingly tend the
animals and plants that we would then harvest, prepare in the kitchen,
and eat. Each of us realized our connection to every other member
of the Chewonki community and to the land itself, and learned to be
responsible with that connection. When I was assigned to collect recyclables
before breakfast for my morning chore, I showed up just as
promptly and with just as much energy as when my chore was to milk
the cows or to clean the bathrooms. Similarly, when a teacher asked me
to read an assignment for homework, I got it done, not simply because
I wanted to keep a good grade, but because the entire class depended
on each person’s individual preparation in order to have rich, meaningful
discussion.
Coming home, I realized that here, too, I was connected to my community.
Although it is larger than the one in Maine, I still have the same
responsibility to those around me, and will have that responsibility to
whatever community I am part of for the rest of my life. In my daily life,
just like on my service trips, I try to look for chances to benefit something
greater than myself. In college, I look forward to becoming part
of a new community, and figuring out how to find my niche, so that I
can serve that community as well as be served by it.
One of Stanford’s essay prompts is to provide a photo and explain its
significance.
I once belonged to royalty, strolling along the lush pastures
of grass and enormous spires of renaissance structure. Unfortunately,
I was not given a crown on my voyage, even though I felt the crown
when visiting the grand castle in Spain. The picture shown is important
to me not only because of the spectacular view, but it also represents
my passions for the study of Spain’s cultural
history and literature as well as how
those subjects offer clues to discovering
my individuality.
Traveling to Spain gave me the
chance of a lifetime to explore its history
with respect to my personality. In
the photograph, the castle in the background
once belonged to the great royal
unifiers of Spain named Ferdinand and
Isabella. With their process of unification
came the exploration of the
Americas. Explorers such as Christopher
Columbus established Spanish territories in the new World, such as
Colombia, which is the country my parents are from, and I was born.
From this chain of causality, Spain’s history essentially created my existence.
Pondering about my historical background from Spain, perhaps
I would have never been born if the king and queen never unified
Spain. I could be speaking Arabic if the expulsion of the Moors
never occurred under the hands of the Spanish monarchs. Curiously, 
I could have been born as an Indian native, because the new World
would have never been explored. Perhaps, I wouldn’t be looking at
the same photo, explaining its significance! Frankly, exploring Spain’s
history has enabled me to discover my origins. When viewing the
picture through my point of view, I see myself returning the roots of
my creation.
Spain also offers a vibrant history of literary works and significant
innovations in Hispanic literature. Similar to the exploration of history
leading to a clue for learning about myself, I have the ability to explore
the literature the Hispanic culture has to offer. Knowing two languages
allows me to discover the essence of ideas authors such as gabriel
garcía Márquez, Jorge Luis Borges, and Cervantes wanted to convey
to their audience. Since language is to a code for ideas, I can decipher
two different kinds of codes, English and Spanish, to understand the
author’s emotions placed into his or her literature. Spanish literature
also enhances Hispanic culture as a positive influence in the world.
reading literature in Spanish and English consequently has allowed
me to further search for clues about my cultural origins, since Spanish
literature is considered a voice among the people.
Perhaps my interest in these two subjects came from knowing I
come from a Colombian family. I am the first in our family to be born
in the United States, and as a result, I represent two different cultures.
Knowing I come from a culturally different family, I feel passionate
about exploring my family’s cultural roots because it is a method to
discover clues about my individuality, as well as the origins of my family.
In the USA, the last names of Aguado or granados are rarely found
among common Americans. When I traveled to Spain, I purchased
wooden plaques showing the coat of arms from my ancestors bearing
the Aguado and granados names. When I found these plaques commemorating
my family, I had felt I found yet another clue to my personality,
since my last names were found from Spain (similar to finding
a needle in a haystack). Finding my coat of arms on my trip proves my
origins lie within the history and culture of Spain. The trip to Spain
gave me the opportunity to explore my existence as a human being, as
well as knowing from where I came.
Based on my perceptions, my picture represents to me the complex
evolution of my personality, since I am constantly finding new clues
leading to the understanding of who I am. This picture is a part of my 
constant search for my individuality and is a reminder of the beginning
of my personal exploration. This is my crown.
The buzzing of the alarm clock suddenly stops and, to my
surprise, I am awakened not by the noise but by the silence, rudely
jerked from my sleep. Six forty-five, the numbers read. I pull my comforter
tighter under my chin and close my eyes, fully intending to get
up in a few minutes. I’m sure I’ll wake back up in a few minutes, but
not yet. I can’t do it yet.
“Lolo!” someone’s whispering to me, in my dreams I’m sure. “Lolo,
get up! Aren’t you coming?” Coming where? One instant of confusion.
Only one blissful instant, and then it all makes sense. It’s Saturday.
“Yeah, I’m coming.” The listlessness of my voice surprises me. I groan
and fold the thick layers of blankets off of me. The frigid December air
pounces. As I watch, thousands of tiny bumps germinate on my arms,
and the fine hairs stand alarmingly straight. After getting out of bed and
pulling on my bathing suit, I eagerly throw my winter coat around my
arms and shoulders. I debate crawling back in my bed. no one said I
had to do it.
I look at my cabinmates, and I push that thought from my mind.
Although Lucy and Tuna stay nestled in their beds, Cara is pulling a
sweatshirt over her head. Emily and Constanza are standing quietly,
fully dressed, and Sarah is duct-taping a pair of flip-flops on her bare
feet. Shoes. I had almost forgotten. I open the door, and look down at
our tiny porch. My tennis shoes are indeed there, frozen solid. I force
the unyielding layers of ice around my feet, wincing. The laces crunch,
and small crystals of ice fall gently to the floor as I tie a bow on each
shoe. Everyone is ready. It’s time to go.
I wrap my arm through Constanza’s as we step off the last wooden
step from the cabin. The air isn’t so bad out here--probably a few degrees
above zero. My feet begin to tingle and then to burn. We trudge
through the snow as quickly as possible, and I’m sure my excitement
is visible on my face.
Soon, we can see the water of the Sheepscot river, stained with thin
sheets of ice. Most people would say we’re out of our minds. My friends
back in Atlanta will call me crazy. I grin. Squeezing Constanza’s hand
on one side and Emily’s on the other, I stumble through the mud left
by the receding tide.
“One, two, three!” We count together and sprint into the icy water,
diving under the surface just for an instant. As we clamber out of the
water and toward our chilled towels, our semester-mates cheer wildly.
The next threesome heads toward the water.
Later in the morning, the thirty-six students at Maine Coast Semester
file into the dining hall for breakfast, about twenty of us dripping wet
and beaming. Five of us sport shorts and sunglasses in a foolish attempt
to defy the cold. I follow my friends to a table where a large book stands
open, and sign my name under the heading “Polar Bears: December
7.” As I sit eating my bagel, I catch the eye of a wet-headed polar bear
across the room and we smile together.
The quick ripping of the tape
 and the heavy thuds of cardboard
boxes echo throughout an empty, unfamiliar, and lonely house.
As the heavy boxes are slowly opened and their contents revealed, my
young heart jumps for joy. There, within that scant and unexpectedly 
durable shell of cardboard, lie my invaluable possessions. After removing
the bubbly layer of protection from my valuables, I begin to place
them, one by one, onto my familiar, yet strangely new shelf.
I first lift out my ragged and faithful stuffed animal Mr. Teddy.
Though torn, dirty and missing his left eye, he reminds me of my
youth and the one constant friendship in my life. He has traveled with
me thousands upon thousands of miles to and from each of the seven
vastly different living experiences that have defined my life. Mr. Teddy
has been there with me throughout the difficulty of every one of the
transitions in my life.
next, I pull out a small, fragile lamp decorated with blue and white
pinstripes. A small yellow duck lives at the bottom of the glass compartment.
As I fumble with the rotating switch, I see that only two of
the three different settings are properly working. now, after years of
travel, only the nightlight and brightest setting work. I leave the light
on at its brightest setting and place it on my night table. The brightness
comforts me.
I return to the box to pull out my thick, denim blue journal and
my favorite ink pen. I flip through the pages, pausing to glance at my
informal collection of favorite pictures of friends, articles, and tidbits
of memories that I have compiled through the stages in my life. I open
to the last section of the book and glance at my favorite quotations alphabetically
sorted by subject and author. I look up Woody Allen and
smile at his ridiculously funny honesty and place my journal on the
ledge next to my window.
After refueling my ink pen I scoop up my carefully packaged rosary
and Bible. As I crack open the case, the pearl white beads of my rosary
glint in the sunlight and my ivory covered Bible, given to me on my
First Communion, opens to the front page. There, written in my aunt’s
handwriting, is a greeting written in Spanish and signed by my now
deceased grandparents. These two items represent one of my only connections
to my relatives and the history of my family in Colombia: a
common religion and a belief in Providence.
After saying a quick prayer of thanksgiving I pull out my final and
most necessary possession. The dust flies off the glass as I blow across
the surface. There, under the grime of travel, lies my own face fixed in
time. Enclosed within a light maple frame, a color photograph captures
my eleven year old self clothed in bright purple soccer shorts and a 
white sleeveless uniform shirt. My hair is tightly pulled back in the
quintessential ponytail, sweat dripping off my skin and dirt covering
my socks. My face is frozen in an expression of relief, domination, and
triumph after scoring the game-winning goal in the merciless sun of
a Houston summer. I study the image and wipe a single tear from my
eye. My knee aches sympathetically, and I prepare to hang the picture.
As I pick up the hammer, I realize that although soccer is no longer a
part of my life, I have filled the vacancy in my heart with other challenging
and significant activities that I have grown to love with the
same fervor. That picture, though simple, encompasses the passion that
is my life. It will forever symbolize for me the love and dedication I
have for everything I do.
With a last glance, I hang the heavy frame on the wall. The box
is empty, unlike the room. Although the room is only filled by a few
items, it is occupied by the only items I will ever need for the rest of my
life: friendship, humility, self-expression, family, god, and passion.
Because I find life's intricacy So amazing, biology and its related
subjects are the most enjoyable topics for me. Within biology our
brains interest me the most, which—with their countless neurons and
chemicals—give us unmatched emotion, uniqueness, and potential.
Due to the possibilities of understanding emotions and mental problems
from their source, I’d like to develop a great understanding of
neuroscience, and use it to help people overcome diseases and mental
barriers as a doctor, allowing them to achieve the highest possible quality
of life.
Brown University would also give me the greatest ability to help
people. With their deep community involvement and famous neuroscience
department, I would have an outstanding opportunity to help
people as I develop the utmost understanding of neurology. The open
curriculum will also bring me more benefits. The ability to study multiple
languages and social sciences will help me interact and exchange
ideas with fewer limits. Moreover, the curriculum will allow me to be-
come an outstanding scientist. The way in which this could help me
scientifically is best summarized in the words of my biology professor
at Kent State University: “One of our major inhibiting factors in addressing
more complicated issues of science is that scientists need to
have a sweeping grasp of multiple disciplines such as psychology, biology,
convention physics, and quantum physics. And if that wasn’t bad
enough, you’re going to need amazing writing skills to convey your
ideas to other people and seem credible.” I don’t necessarily expect
to achieve full mastery in the four or five years I spend as an undergraduate,
but I believe Brown is where I’ll have the best opportunity
to advance in these areas. To expand even more, the open curriculum
would allow me to surround myself with individuals that are just as
passionate about languages and sciences as I am. With these classmates
I would love to have great conversations and even participate in research.
Attending Brown University will bring me all of these things,
which will aid me in becoming the best doctor and scientist I can possibly
be.
The famous Greek mathematician, Archimedes, said,
“give me a lever long enough and a fulcrum on which to place it, and I
shall move the world.” The basic principle of a lever is that as the length
of a lever increases, the effort needed to be exerted to accomplish a task
decreases. This fundamental law can also apply to life. Life’s levers are
experiences and opportunities that combine to motivate the individual
to succeed. However, a lever is useless when forced upon an incorrectly
placed fulcrum. Fulfilling oneself with passion and values is to build
and place a strong and stable fulcrum. Without a passion for success,
these opportunities and experiences become obsolete. Few find the
correct balance between these variables and thus fail to reach their full
potential. I, however, plan to be someone who finds that balance.
In an effort to build a successful lever for myself, I have searched
for these experiences and opportunities all of my life. I have always
had a passion for learning and a natural drive to succeed. At the beginning
of my sophomore year in high school, I began to volunteer
at a local, family owned zoo. This idea came from an innate passion
for animals and an ongoing interest in science. At first, it was simply
to complete a community service graduation requirement, but soon
thereafter, I realized it was so much more. Work there was not like
what most zoo volunteers experience. When other volunteers were
following zookeepers and watching animals through cages at larger
commercial zoos, I was spending nights “monkeysitting” my supervisor’s
newborn Japanese snow macaque. However, calling it work
solely alludes to labor. It was more of a life-altering, unique opportunity
and provided me with the experience that clenched my decision
to major in animal science.
Along with my passion for animals, I am also always looking for
ways to challenge myself intellectually. I am an active member of my
school’s Envirothon and Math teams and a Science Olympiad competitor.
After high school, it has always been a goal of mine to attend an
academically competitive university. A few years of researching brought
me to Cornell’s College of Agriculture and Life Sciences (CALS). After
attending the CALS open house and information lecture on the animal
science department, I knew it was the perfect fit. One of the reoccurring
themes of my conversations with students and professors alike was
CALS dedication to shaping students into leaders.
With the experience I have gained in working at the zoo, I see myself
emerging as a natural leader. Leaders are those few who do manage
to balance the use of their “lever and fulcrum.” In high school, I also
have worked my way to positions such as; nHS President, Steel Drums
Ensemble President, and Student representative to the School Board.
Leadership roles like these are not something I plan to make the past
after high school. In a school like CALS that has so many extracurricular
activities to get involved in, I am sure obtaining positions similar to
the ones I hold now would not be difficult. One of the clubs that I have
seriously explored is the Pre-vet Society. veterinary School is something
that I plan to pursue after college and hope to get involved in at
the undergraduate level.
The building of a successful lever has only just begun for me. There
is still so much that I have not seen or done. Life is full of opportunities 
that can lead to great experiences, one of my greatest being volunteering
at the Woodland Zoo. With all of the opportunities CALS has to
offer, if given the chance to attend, I am certain that I would utilize
every one; becoming not only an active member of the university, but
a leader of tomorrow.
Everyknows it takes both hard work and a good
understanding of the subject in order to complete a project. However,
I never appreciated the other academic strengths and personal qualities
needed until my 11th grade physics final. The task was to create an
energy conversion machine that would undergo a minimum of five energy
conversions. The construction of the machine piqued my interest
in pursuing an engineering career and later became the pivotal factor in
my decision to apply to Caltech.
I knew from the beginning that it would be a challenge to complete
just the minimum requirements for the project. Believing that my
teammates and I had the ability and potential to do better, as the team
leader, I made it our goal to cover the conversions of all eight energy
types that were taught in class. I also strived to add into the machine
a bonus feature of breaking an egg. Struggling to find a solution for
breaking the egg, I reflected upon the force of gravity we had learned.
This idea led to a trap-door mechanism that would allow the egg to fall
under gravity and break upon impact.
In addition to excelling in math and the sciences, I am also a strong
visual art student. Enjoying drawing and designing, I gained a different
perspective that I may not have had as just a science student. The
creativity and imagination from the visual arts allowed me to use toilet 
paper rolls, Styrofoam, and Popsicle sticks as the primary materials to
construct the machine in a limited space within limited time. Together
with good planning, coordination, and the ability to work in a team, my
innovative perspective from visual arts made this project a success.
On the due date, I watched with a prideful glee as the machine
operated smoothly. For going beyond the minimum requirements, the
machine was very well received. Beyond earning an excellent grade, the
challenge of completing this project intrigued my increasing interest in
engineering. My expectations and goals as a future college student were
also evolved during the process.
Certain that I wanted to become a professional in the engineering
field, I began searching for a college that would provide me with an excellent
academic and hands-on experience. While I knew that Caltech
is a prestigious science and engineering school, it wasn’t until I received
the Caltech Signature Award that I developed a stronger interest in becoming
a Techer. Upon further research, I realized that Caltech is the
college for me.
At Caltech, my engineering aspirations will be realized in this challenging,
research-integrated environment. The rigorous coursework
and the generous research opportunities at Caltech will provide the
challenge I need to achieve my goal of becoming an engineer. In return,
I believe the combination of my academic strength and creative
personal characteristics will definitely contribute to Caltech and help to
add to the interdisciplinary atmosphere of the school.
It takes more than just hard work to succeed as an engineering professional.
However, it can be achieved with the outstanding educational
opportunity at Caltech and with my other academic strengths and personal
qualities.
Boy! Was I disappointed to receive your letter! However, I do welcome
the chance to explain more clearly my values, passions and reasons
why I think Duke is my first choice.
My application and recommendation letters stated my scientific
accomplishments. The passive thermoacoustic cooling device we presented
at the Intel International Science and Engineering Fair (Intel 
ISEF) won the Best of Team Category and First Award, among numerous
other special prizes. We patented this device and are working with
Taiwan’s Compal Corporation, your computer could very well be using
parts built by them, to iron out a few more problems and to eventually
share this revolutionary product with the world. now I would like to
talk about more about just who Pen-Yuan Hsing is.
My education started in the US when I was 7. Having come from
Taiwan, faced with enormous cultural and language barriers, I had to
learn to adapt. Overcoming loneliness and self-conflict, I made lifelong
friends and English became in many ways my mother tongue. returning
to Taiwan in fourth grade mirrored this difficult transition. Some may
find me quiet and reserved, it’s because I learned to listen, and understand.
Yet when the time comes, I do take the initiative and let my voice
be heard, as my friends, teachers and parents can so often attest.
Years later, I was unanimously elected as the head of Taipei Wetnet,
a student-run organization that promotes environmental education and
awareness. We hold seasonal conferences on environmental matters for
students from all over northern Taiwan to participate. One story really
struck a chord in me.
For many years the Waimushan coastline was littered with thousands
of plastic beads used in the fabrication of plastic products. Wildlife
there mistook the beads as food and stuffed themselves to death. One
can see many half-decomposed animals filled with plastic beads in their
bodies. Our organization filed a report to local authorities requesting
an investigation. The mayor learned of this and bought truckloads of
sand to cover up the beach. This successful “cleanup” of the coast got
him re-elected a second term in office. Two months later, the extra layer
of sand was washed away by tides, re-exposing the plastic beads and
animals started dying again. We weren’t willing to settle for that. People
do not realize that whatever harm we do to the environment is ultimately
done on ourselves. This is what Taipei Wetnet tries to convey in all of
our activities. We started as just a few friends taking an excursion to the
beach, but now Taipei Wetnet has impact on the national level. We had
meetings on environmental policy and education with officials from the
presidential level. I am grateful to have been the head of Taipei Wetnet
during this extraordinary time. Of course, all my accomplishments, science
projects and environmental activities, do have their share of difficulties
and setbacks. It is through them that I learned the most.
For a student to do these things in Taiwan’s test-score-oriented culture
is considered a highly risky venture. My science project didn’t win
for several years in a row; I was warned to either stick to the traditional
path of cramming and testing, or “face the consequences.” Under
tremendous social pressure, I persisted, having faith that the skills I
gained are more important. I like the apprehension of waiting for data
to collect and the eventual thrill of seeing things finally turn out right,
especially an experiment you labored on for countless nights. I like the
satisfaction that what you are doing is making a difference in the world,
such as the life changing experience of participating in Taipei Wetnet’s
activities. Last year, my work was finally recognized in the world’s largest
scientific gathering, the Intel ISEF. They even named a celestial object
after me, the “minor planet” Hsingpenyuan, with others like Einstein
and Cleopatra. While gratifying, this experience only made me more
humble and dedicated. The average lifespan of a Taiwanese male is
around 70 years. Almost through one-third of it, I do not want to waste
the rest trying to be someone else. This is why my first choice is Duke.
What first caught my eye was the Focus Program, with its interdisciplinary
education and service learning opportunities. In fact, the
first paper I co-authored and presented was about Taipei Wetnet’s experience
in environmental service learning. A course in Duke’s special
research Service-Learning program will definitely be one I plan to take.
I am also very interested in Duke’s environmental science major. In
many schools, it would be great if it even has a minor in environmental
science or policy. In that case, they often lack actual hands-on training
and accumulation of field experience. However, the nicholas School’s
course and curriculum not only offers a solid education in basic science,
it also provides ample opportunity for field study through unique
facilities such as the Marine Lab and the Duke Forest. This is exactly
what I think how we should learn about the environment, by actually
doing something and seeing change. With Duke’s unique opportunities,
I can continue to do research starting from my first year. (Also
worth mentioning is the mild weather, definitely a plus for a Taiwanese
student like me!)
I look forward to becoming a Blue Devils fan, and perhaps even get
a Kville experience. I also love reading science fiction and playing the
piano. One great story I read was The Days Between by Allen Steele,
it’s about a man who suddenly woke up alone on a spacecraft that is 
still 200 years from its destination. Steele’s vivid description of how
the character coped with loneliness and his determination to survive
resonated within me. This also happens when I listen to Chopin. I try
to rush home before 10 each night, the unofficial time limit for playing
music in our apartment, to play the piano. Chopin’s music, torn with
great strife and conflict, yet with a romantically optimistic touch, is
something I could relate to, that I can share my feelings with. I would
love to take a Piano Course if I may come to Duke.
My unique qualities and experiences, so diverse yet intrinsically
intertwined, allowed me to become the first Taiwanese student ever
to receive the Ministry of Education’s full scholarship award to study
abroad. With full backing of this scholarship, I strongly believe that
armed with a strong Duke education, I will be able to make a difference
in the world.
Finally, I would like to express my deepest thanks for all the time
and effort you have placed in the application process. My mother is a
professor at the national Taiwan University who is agonizing right now
over their undergraduate applications. This, along with my own background
and experience helped me understand how difficult it must be
to make an admission decision, as it has the potential to change the
future of the world.
