ThE TITLE oF ThIS pIcTUrE IS “Abuelo” which means grandfather
in Spanish. At first glance, it seems just a waste of a snapshot. Perhaps
just another struggling photographer trying to pay the rent or who simply
had one more shot left in a roll of film and took a random picture.
It is an 8" by 11" color photograph of a man’s neck, more specifically
the back of his neck. It is quite wrinkled and brown and white hair has
invaded the scalp. At first I questioned why the photographer did not
simply take a picture of his grandfather’s face. A face would allow viewers
to see what the grandfather looks like and tell some kind of story,
certainly more than what the back of his neck could possibly tell.
What I came to realize is that this is no random shot. What this picture
wants is for me to imagine and to create a story. It does not necessarily
wish to be framed but the picture does not want to be overlooked
or neglected. It wants to be given a chance to prove itself as equally
worthy as any other photograph. I do not need the face of the Abuelo
to imagine the story of his life or personality. The back of his neck is
just as important as his face.
After spending some time with this Abuelo I learned that the back
of his neck is not just brown, it is tanned. not just a natural tan, that
some people are born with, but a particular shade of tan that can only
be attained after continuous exposure to the sun. Perhaps this man
does a lot of work outside. The distinguished wrinkles are more than
just lines. In between them there seems to be some kind of dust. I recognize
this dust because it is the kind of dust my father gets when he is
working with joint compound.
After examining a little more closely I noticed the multiple scars
on his scalp which prevent his hair from growing. The tiny hole in his
earlobe reminds me that he was young once and had, like many young
teenage boys, pierced his ear. Around his neck I can see a glimpse of
a brown necklace. This necklace is very familiar to me because I own
one. It is a very thin string with a small rectangular cloth at both ends.
Many Catholics believe that it is something sacred.
In this case this picture is not measured by the thousands of words
it is worth, but it is measured by what I took from it. It should not be 
criticized by what it does not have but should be valued for what it
does have. I have found something in common with this photograph.
All along what this picture wanted from me was to find something familiar.
That familiarity sets this particular picture apart from all other
photographs I have encountered and what has kept it vividly visible
after having come across it years ago. This is exactly what this photograph
longed for: to be found familiar and remembered.