EVErY SUNdAY morNING, ThE LocAL STArBUcKS plays host to
what my mom likes to call “mother-son bonding time.” This Sunday is
no different. My mom and I sit down with our regular Chai Latte and
Caramel Frappuchino, and absorb the aroma of the coffee beans and
the gentle rays of the winter sun.
“So Alex, what are we going to do for dad’s 50th birthday?” When
my mom asks a question about upcoming plans, she doesn’t expect an
answer; she already has something in mind. Many years ago, my mom
started a family tradition of making gifts personal: poems, songs, skits.
At first I didn’t understand why we were wasting so much time when we
could just buy a gift card from the local mall. But my outlook changed
when I turned twelve. For my birthday, my parents gave me a poster, a
product of their many hours on Photoshop. With long hair, sideburns,
and a slim suit, I had become the fifth member of the Beatles crossing
Abbey road. Every morning when I wake up, this poster opposite my
bed is the first thing I see, and I start off the day with a smile. Since 
then, I have needed little persuasion to start working on the next gift
project. Actually, I even look forward to these times, when my parents
find their inner children, and the trivial worries of life simply whisk
away. My dad, both figuratively and literally, ditches his office suit and
proper manners, and dons a red woman’s wig and high heels to practice
a scene. My mom stops scolding my sister and me, and joins us in our
ruckus, doing the jitterbug and blowing on a harmonica. These are the
moments in my family when there are no children or adults, just four
people who give in to their creative urges.
“How about throwing Dad a party, and making him a movie?” my
mom asks as I use my straw to fish for any remaining coffee at the bottom
of the cup. “Just think of a movie you like and we’ll parody it.”
A big fan of “the-life-is-like-a-box-of-chocolates” theory, I suggest my
favorite movie, Forrest gump. She smiles. “OK, but only if you play
Forrest.”
When we come home, my mom takes down a box, heavy with the
dust of age, scribbled with messy russian lettering. I peer over her
shoulder as she empties onto the living room floor the contents: my
dad’s life story in black and white. Within minutes, I am completely immersed
in the photographs I have never seen before. As I gape at a picture
of a bearded teenager laughing with his friends, I do a double take.
Is this the same clean-shaven man who helped me to prove the theorem
that all right angles are congruent and always tells me to tuck in my
shirt? I shake my head in disbelief as I thumb through some pictures of
my dad and his friends with guitars in the forest singing songs around a
camp fire. My mom explains that the Soviet government didn’t approve
of these songs, so the woods became their only refuge. I am now starting
to understand why my dad, limited in what he could sing or say
as a youth, pushes my sister and me to ask probing questions, survey
news from all sides of the political spectrum, and watch controversial
movies. Looking down at one of the pictures of my dad in the forest, it
just hits me: the movie should be called “Forest guy.”
 With each picture comes its own story, and collectively, they create
a collage of my dad’s past that I had never known. But even more surprises
await me as I watch documentaries about russian leaders in the
20th century. To truly parody Forrest gump, some “great” Communist
leaders must be part of Forest guy’s life, just as Kennedy and nixon
were part of Forrest gump’s. Coming up with bizarre ideas of how
my dad met the Communist leaders is the most entertaining part of
our moviemaking. My stomach throbs with laughter as I conceive the
impossible notion of my dad bullying gorbachev into destroying the
Berlin Wall.
Along with russian history, I also discover part of my family’s: while
discussing the horrors of Stalin’s reign with my mom, I am shocked
to hear that my father was born in exile, and one of his uncles died in
Stalin’s concentration camp for joking about Communists. It’s hard to
believe that someone can be killed for cracking a joke, when cracking
a safe will only get you a few years in jail. Luckily, when I am joking
about Lenin and Stalin in my film, my only worry is crowd response.
It is the day of the party, and as I look around at the apprehensive
crowd, my instincts yell, “run, Alex! run!” Soon, the lights dim, and
my anxiety grows. I am watching the viewers as intensely as they are
watching the screen. As each joke is met with uproarious laughter and
table slapping, my breaths become calmer and my fingers stop shaking.
Twenty-five minutes later, I hear the long awaited ovation. I gaze from
table to table at the sea of smiles, but one face catches my attention. It
is my dad’s, showing complete disbelief that something so grandiose
could be done about him and for him. All these weeks I had been so
focused on the guests’ reactions that I never thought about my dad’s.
Although he is trying hard to contain himself, I see a tear sneak from
the side of his eye. It is the first time I have seen my dad cry.
Yes, life is a box of chocolates. Some are delicious, some too bitter
for your taste. But the best are like the one I picked that day; they seem
like any other chocolate, but when you bite into them, they surprise
you with an unexpected flavor.