ThE coLd mId-AUGUST SAN FrANcISco BAY fog was just beginning
to roll in over Piedmont as I snapped the cover shut on Jennings
Burch’s book “They Cage the Animals at night,” the most recent addition
to my “get ready for 7th grade summer reading extravaganza.” It is
a story about a young boy who lives in various orphanages and foster
homes with only his stuffed animal, Doggie, for companionship. My
cousin from Connecticut had told me that it was a fabulous book, but
little did I know how it would touch my life and the lives of others.
As I gazed across my room at the pile of stuffed animals I had been
collecting since I was young, an idea came to me. I would collect stuffed
animals for children like Jennings. First, I contacted local agencies that
support children suffering from abuse and neglect and told them about
my idea. They said that the stuffed animals would be very helpful in
therapy and would certainly lift children’s spirits.
I decided to call my project “Cuddle Buddies.” now I actually had
to come up with the “buddies”! I wrote articles for the local and school
newspapers, telling Jennings’ story and asking for donations of stuffed
animals. My phone rang off the hook; schools, families, local businesses
and toy manufacturers all wanted to help. Much to my delight this
project took the Bay Area by storm. By the second week my living room
looked like a zoo with animals tucked in every corner and on top of
each chair. Every time my mom and I made deliveries to the agencies,
the kids would be waiting for their Cuddle Buddies with their eyes
down, too shy to look but shaking with excitement.
Six years after its launch, Cuddle Buddies continues to expand.
Each year I solicit from more toy companies and communities. now
over 25,000 stuffed animals have been donated to agencies in the Bay
Area and Connecticut, emergency units, two orphanages in Africa
and one in germany. At the Saidia Children’s Home in Kenya, Simon,
a seven year old, whose parents died from AIDS, couldn’t sleep at
night. When the Cuddle Buddies were laid out for him to choose
from, Simon selected a grey koala bear and soon after was sleeping
through the night. My heart ached when I learned that a young girl
in Oakland had stopped cutting herself so she could get the big black 
dog that she wanted so badly. I never dreamed that Cuddle Buddies
would be used in these ways.
Knowing that I would be going on to college and that others my
age could do what I have done, I decided to expand Cuddle Buddies.
To spread the word beyond the Bay Area I designed a website, www.
cuddlebuddies.net, and contacted newspapers and Tv stations across
the nation. The response was overwhelming. I heard from kids, parents,
agencies and even The girls Scouts. I am now helping to establish
two dozen Cuddle Buddies chapters from Utah to north Carolina.
This has been a great experience. I have learned how to follow
through on an idea, how to champion a cause and how to deal with
setbacks. But most importantly, I have learned how easy it is to positively
impact a life and the joy that comes from it. I will go to college
with these lessons in mind and hope to continue my work with Cuddle
Buddies, even as I engage in a whole new set of exciting academic and
nonacademic pursuits.