EVErY YEAr, mY chrISTmAS wISh LIST would read, “Dear Santa,
all I want for Christmas is a baby brother.” At age nine, I knew Santa had
to be real because, one day, my mom announced that she was pregnant.
After ten years of being an only child, I could not have anticipated how
much my life would change because of a little brother. I received the
honor of naming him, and I chose Jason. In retrospect, I should have
named my brother “Ivan the Terrible.”
Jason followed me everywhere like an irritating shadow. My grievances
to my mom were countless, especially after Jason drew all over
my bedroom walls and murdered my pet fish, goldie. My mom’s typical
response was, “Well, isn’t this what you’ve always wished for?”
Jason’s mischief reached a new height one morning when I became
the victim of a five year old with scissors. I stared into the bathroom
mirror and dunked my head under cold water to make sure I was not
dreaming. What I saw enraged me! In the middle of the night, Michael
had cut off five inches of my long, black hair from one side of my
head. I stood in horror, and stormed to the kitchen where I found the
rest of my family calmly eating breakfast. I flashed a menacing stare at
my brother, who snickered across the table. “You’re going to pay for
this!” I screamed. Furious beyond words, I could not even begin to
describe my rage. Instead, I ran back to the bathroom and huddled on
the floor.
“What am I going to do?” I was irate and panicked at the same time.
As a freshman in high school, I was very sensitive about my appearance.
I had been hesitant to cut my hair past the “tips to take away the
split-ends” trim, because my hair had been the same length for seven
years. I agonized over the situation and concocted my swift counter-attack.
Instead of chopping off his hair, I found inspiration to appease my
anger in the pages of Teen magazine and considered trendy hairstyles.
My brother was stunned because I did not retaliate. victory was mine.
Because of experiences such as this, I have learned to adapt, to keep
my focus, and to solve problems with little or no resources. I approach
tough situations with objectivity and determination. Like many other
experiences with my brother and at school, I have dealt with difficult 
situations and turned them into positive opportunities for change. I am
flexible with the circumstances given to me, and I strive for the best
outcome. Despite the craziness Santa’s gift brings, Jason’s continuous
surprises provide laughter to my life. As for my hair, I did cut off the
five inches from the other side, and I actually cherished the new look
better. Thanks, Santa.