“hErITAGE” IS ThE FIrST word IN my family dictionary, a noun
and adverb, for who we are and how we live. My parents taught me that
my heritage defines my identity. Through honorific speech towards my
elders and adherence to traditional values, I accepted Korean customs
as part of the duality that defines my life in America.
Yet, a turbulent disunity stormed under that surface of peaceful coexistence.
Though I outwardly represented the model Korean-American
son, I loathed fitting this stereotypical mold. My shell was so well-constructed,
however, that others mistook me for a successful immigrant. I
felt as if I were ripped from the very fabric of my American birthplace,
and plunged into a vacuum between my ancestral home and the world
I lived in. I felt that my heritage was a short anchor against the relentlessly
rising tide: I had to break free—or go under.
While struggling with this chain, however, I came to appreciate what
my heritage offered. As a martial arts instructor, I supported students in
building discipline and character. As a bilingual tutor, I helped immigrant
children adapt to life in America. Soon, I realized that my heritage
was an instrument for harmonizing personal development with service
to others.
When I was selected to serve in the HOBY World Leadership
Congress, my family’s financial circumstances did not cover the $1,350
required fee. By infusing my American entrepreneurial energy with
Asian medicine, I covered the cost by selling herbal products at my
martial arts studio. Though the novelty of my venture brought me to the
verge of bankruptcy, I persisted. By researching products, competitors
and clientele, I streamlined my inventory to best serve my customers.
Eventually, I created a business aimed at offering others a healthy
lifestyle. Sweaty students gulped green tea and chocolate-flavored
snacks, dropping dollars for the cause that lay within my cardboard
cashbox. Supported by outside donations, I became greater L.A.’s ambassador
in Washington D.C. Infused with new inspiration, I returned
with a project grant to spread the martial arts lifestyle of discipline,
confidence, and respect.
As my heritage anchored itself to the bedrock of my battles, I integrated
Korean tradition with my American identity. Fusing service
with civic duty, I entered the L.A. County Sheriff’s Explorer Academy.
Through the grueling training, I learned to work as part of a team.
Appointed as Drill Instructor a year later, I took command of training
the older recruits. Through a relationship of mutual respect, I prepared
my platoon to dutifully serve the community. Leading this racially
mixed group, I empathized beyond the duality of my own identity. I
soon discovered that my heritage must transcend my personal struggles
to truly embrace diversity.
Heritage is not a mere ethnic label—it is the honor and humanity
that I am inspired to uphold. Today, I am grateful to my parents for
endowing me with a spirit of dedication and determination. They bestowed
a philosophy that speaks through my actions. This inheritance
forms the base of my integrity as an individual, and defines my dedication
to strengthening the society that I live in.