My family has taken living in the big city as a reason for why
we should never give up. Here in Los Angeles there are countless individuals
and families along all points on the immigration spectrum from
recent arrivals to recent citizenship. residing in this great city has provided
me with diversity, opportunity, acceptance, and an abundance of
role models to follow through all troubles- big and small.
I always thought that I had it the worst out of all my family members
because I was never allowed to get anything lower than what my
brother or a cousin had gotten in a class. My parents figured if they
could do it, so could I, and if not on my own then with a little of their
help. It was not until recently that I realized the truth in this. In my
short life I have seen my father go from speaking no English, to excelling
in it. I have heard countless stories about migrant farmers such as
Cesar Chavez and my grandfather who had nearly nothing, yet persisted
and succeeded.
growing up hearing these stories of great injustices and misfortunes
has truly influenced my long term goals. I am going to go far because
there is no excuse for not doing my best, given all I have been blessed 
with. When I had trouble speaking Spanish and felt like abandoning
my native tongue I remembered my mother and how when she came
to the United States she was forced to wash her mouth out with soap
and endure beatings with a ruler by the nuns at her school for speaking
it. When I couldn’t figure out tangents, sines, and cosines I thought
about my father and how it took him nearly a year to learn long division
because he was forced to teach it to himself after dropping out and
starting to work in the 4th grade. And when I wanted to quit swimming
because I was tired I remembered my grandfather and how no matter
how his muscles ached if he stopped digging, or picking fruit, or
plowing he risked not having enough food to feed his family. Pursuing
technical fields such as math and engineering first seemed like work for
men to me, but the times have changed. All these people, just from my
family have been strong role models for me.
I feel that being labeled “underprivileged” does not mean that I am
limited in what I can do. There is no reason for me to fail or give up,
and like my parents and grandparents have done, I’ve been able to pull
through a great deal. My environment has made me determined, hard
working, and high aiming. I would not like it any other way. This is
how my Hispanic heritage, family upbringing, and role models have
influenced my academic and personal long term goals.