I wish I was invisible. I wish I was invisible. I wish I was invisible.
One of my biggest fears has always been going to an unfamiliar place,
but each time I have had the satisfaction of knowing that at the end of
the day I can go home. I am a shy person, and it has always been difficult
for me to adjust to a new environment. Transitioning from eighth
grade to high school was especially difficult for me because my high
school was, in fact, a boarding school, which meant that that feeling of
satisfaction was no longer present at the end of the day but postponed
to the end of the week. Living at LFA was a completely new world for
me and nothing I had experienced could have prepared me for it.
With confused eyes and nothing less than a nauseous sensation in
my stomach I entered my first day of high school. growing up, I had always
gone to school with people who looked like me, sounded like me,
and dressed liked me, but here I quickly learned that I was the minority.
I was not alone in this. Two of my friends came to LFA with me and,
with this in mind, my shyness and I did not think it necessary to make
new friends. Besides being one of the only schools with its own ice rink
and providing only the latest technology for its students, it suddenly
hit me that my new home had countless possibilities, but, before those
possibilities could be realized, I had to take initiative. I learned a very
important lesson at LFA: you will only get out of life as much as you
put into it. Stepping out of my comfort zone allowed me to discover an
interest and skill for volleyball and hidden leadership as the captain of
the Jv team. I became a tutor and friend for young Hispanic students 
at the nuestro Center, and they reminded me how important it is to
give back to the community. After numerous all nighters, I developed
a system where I could get all of my homework done and still be able
to get involved with sports and extracurriculars without having to sacrifice
any sleep time.
Towards the end of my sophomore year a family member’s sickness
unfortunately forced me to leave my school and return home. I left LFA
and joined my new family, Mirta ramirez Computer Science Charter
High School. Containing a student body that was 99 percent Hispanic,
I was no longer the minority. I had unconsciously become accustomed
to the LFA way of life because, in my mind, this tiny mustard yellow
building with no more than four windows could not possibly compare
to my old home. I was right. no, my new home was not as big nor as
fancy, but I discovered that was not a setback. Although the resources
were not directly visible nor as easily accessible, I learned that obstacles
did not exist for students there. Most, if not all, of the students had the
same hunger for knowledge as I had.
This summer my school announced that the building which we had
been using had fire code violations and we could not return to our
building in the fall. Throughout the summer my school did not have
a building and did not find one until a few weeks after school started.
By that time I had already taken a decision to, once again, leave my
home and join yet another family. What I realized on my first day at
Josephinum Academy, was that my shyness had not tagged along and
I was eager to go to school. The nauseous feeling had left my stomach
and enthusiasm had entered. I had already gained and learned so much
from the people I had met in my two previous schools that I could not
wait to continue my journey and embark on yet another discovery.
The knowledge that I have gained from these three schools is something
I will take with me far beyond college. My roommate, across-thehall
mates, and classmates have influenced my life as much as I hope
to have impacted theirs. It is evident to me that they have helped me
develop into the very much visible person I am today. I have learned to
step outside of my comfort zone, and I have learned that diversity is so
much more than the tint of our skin. My small mustard colored school
taught me that opportunity and success only requires desire.
I would be an asset to your college because as I continue on my
journey to success, I will take advantage of every opportunity that is 
available to me and make sure to contribute as much as I can too.
now I am visible. now I am visible. now I am visible, and I want to
be seen.