“Hello! What’s Your Name?” “Pen-Yuan Hsing.” I see The
Expression, then hear The response: “What?” Starting the first grade in
the US without knowing a single word of English, going back to Taiwan
three years later incapable of recognizing a single Chinese character is
not exactly an ideal circumstance for blending in. For many years, I 
was always the quiet one sitting in the corner, the one who few people
talked to, the one out of the loop. I was the “local alien.”
I opt to join the Earth Science Club during my first year in Lishan
High School, as I always had an interest in astronomy, which happened
to be the focus of that year’s club activities. I didn’t know the weekly
gathering time of our club was also an elective Earth Science course
that students from other high schools could attend. I certainly did not
realize what a big impact this arrangement would have on me.
near the end of the first semester, I was approached by a girl from a
neighboring school who attended this earth science course. She asked
if I wanted to join her on an environmental survey of Taiwan’s Keelung
coast conducted by an organization called Taipei Wetnet. For a moment
I hesitated, I literally had no experience in responding to invitations.
What suddenly came out of my mouth surprised me, “Sure, what
time?”
For the next three years I spent in Taipei Wetnet, I gained not only
a close friend, knowledge about the problems our environment faced,
but perhaps most importantly found a group of people who shared the
same convictions, who are passionate about the same thing, the plight
of our precious planet. A year after being introduced to this organization,
I was its coordinator and presented my first academic paper at an
environmental education conference. I learned that I don’t always have
to be the quiet one in the corner, that I do and can have things to share
with everyone else. I don’t have to fear.
I often think about how I managed to say yes on that fateful day.
Was it just because of a pretty face? Or maybe there has always been a
special part of me that wanted to get out, and she was instrumental in
“flipping the switch.” This eye-opening experience and what I learned
from it is what I desperately want to share with the world.
Perhaps, somewhere out there is another quiet person in the corner
just waiting to be found. A switch waiting to be flipped. You just have
to find it, flip it, and make the world a brighter, warmer place.