pArT oF mE IS mISSING. IT’S an identifiable, yet indescribable absence.
It is odd how I can find more information about the initial supposed
creators, Adam and Eve, than I can about my own. I don’t know
my father, and I doubt that I ever will. He left two weeks after I was
born because I lacked a certain male member. Fidelity to personal convictions
was more important to him than a life that he had just shepherded
into this world. Because of his definitive choice, I will only be
able to associate with him as a support check number until I am eighteen
years of age. After that, who knows?
When I was eleven, my mother decided to call this long-gone man
in search of owed child support. After eleven years of nothingness,
financial distress caused my mother call this absolute last resource. In
my house, we had an early 90s telephone that had a speaker/mute
function. I can still see that outdated piece of technology in the corner
of my mind. That speaker/mute function granted me the only contact
with my father that I have ever known.
I was a mischievous child; I knew that day that my mother was
physically on the phone with my birthfather. I was naïve. I thought
that hearing my father’s voice would fill the void created by years of
absence. I thought that hearing his voice would allow me to place my
father on the same grand plateau as other fathers who had always been
there for their children, loved their children. I snuck into the room
with the technical phone and silently listened in on the conversation. I
felt smart and sly as I pressed the button that put the stranger’s voice on
the speakerphone. “Hah,” I thought, “he can’t hear me, but I can hear
him.” Maybe if he would have known the simple fact that his daughter
was listening, maybe then some shred of human decency would have
shined through.
Those few moments provided me with the only ounce of a man that
comprises half of my biology that I will ever know. Unfortunately, the
stranger didn’t know I was listening. Like my life before, he never knew
that I was there. As he yelled at my mother, I could hear the fear in her
voice as he responded to her pleas with such malice. My mother tried
to convey to my father that I was not just his incarnation to be provided
for, but rather, a spectacular human being. As I sat there, listening intently
to the conversation, I felt validated as a daughter by my mother’s
words, but shattered as a human being by my “father’s” insolence.
In the moments that followed, that little girl, initially so excited
at the prospect of finally being able to physically hear her creator,
was eternally crushed. “Just because she exists doesn’t mean I have
to love her; it doesn’t mean I have to know her. I don’t love her, and
I never will.” Crash. Is it possible for the strongest muscle in your
body to simply break in half? One of my genetic halves had declared
that he loathed my very existence. Those words succeeded to shatter
my heart into a million pieces. I didn’t know how to react. I turned
off the phone and slithered back to my room. How could someone
be so heartless? How could someone that heartless be a part of me?
no words.
I have been sobered by pain in a way that no psychological study
ever could attempt. I may never know my father because of his decision,
and in turn, he will never know me. In the end, his loss will be
the greater one. My “father’s” shining example of misconduct ironically
guides me as a moral, ethical person. rather than searching for any
fault within myself, I use my father’s failure as a tool. I take an earnest 
and honest stance in life. I know my great worth. I have nothing to
prove to anyone, including myself.