I hAVE ALwAYS BEEN comForTABLE wITh Tae Kwon Do, music,
art, and friends. However, as a horse in Chinese astrology, I also need
to explore different pursuits, and step outside of my comfort zone. This
summer, I ventured beyond the pasture of my comfort zone, and participated
onstage in the high school summer musical for the first time.
The biggest challenge of taking this leap was overcoming my own
mental barrier—the sign that read, Jean, you have never had a dance
lesson; you have no idea how to sing or act. Out of fear that I would
feel uncomfortable, I believed that playing violin in the pit orchestra
was my calling. However, after three years of pit orchestra experience, I
longed to shine in that coveted spotlight. I did not tell my friends about
how I wondered what it would feel like to act onstage in front of eight
hundred people. When I saw that the title of the musical for this past
summer was Anything goes, I knew that no one would think worse
of me for following my aspirations. Confident that my friends would
encourage me, I let go of my cautious Chinese approach to life, and let
the free-spirited horse within me escape.
Despite my decision to participate in the musical, I was terrified. I
wondered whether I would meet any friends and if I would be able to
learn to sing and dance well. My fears were intensified because I missed
the first week of rehearsals while at a leadership conference in new
York City. When I attended my first rehearsal, arriving directly from
new York City, my fortitude kept me steady. With confidence and new
York City memories in my heart, I joined the rest of the cast and reveled
in the excitement. I followed my new friends with a passion for an art
form that I hardly knew, but willingly embraced.
From that moment on, I was a horse freely cantering around an
open meadow. I had discovered a new point of view, and the grass was 
greener than it had ever seemed. Some days, I came home with new
dance steps to show my parents. On other days, I drew the designs of
my costumes when my descriptions at the dinner table would not suffice.
The make-up artist tried three times to find the right blush, while
the hair team created a different style for me each night. Having to
think up a new hairstyle each time was parallel to my shifting opinion
of my life and self. Although participating in the musical was initially
petrifying, I discovered that taking such a risk was the optimal way to
grow and change.
now, I will not shy away from being in a musical cast because my
comfort zone is expanding. Soon it will encompass the grand scope
of my interests: from singing and dancing to throwing a sales pitch
in front of judges; from learning how to execute precision front-flips
to building my favorite piano repertoire; from designing a webpage
to arranging chamber music, or developing optics technologies. Such
passions will continue to define who I am and what I hope to achieve.
My character is being shaped and reshaped by my learning experiences
because I am an impressionable human being. As I continue to explore,
I know that my interests will solidify into a cohesive whole. Until then,
I seek to enrich myself with new opportunities and never look back.
EVErY FAmILY hAS ThEIr STorY, ALL with aspects that brings them
together or drive them apart. I come from a Mexican family, where family
is the only thing we know. We share each other’s pain and misery
and we rejoice for our miracles. We learn and grow through each other. 
Even through the darkest days we survive as one. I witnessed those
dark days, but I also saw the bright and through it all I evolved into
who I am today.
I encountered one of my biggest obstructions when I was a child. I
was born into a family that had immigrated to America from Mexico.
Although my parents had been in the country for quite some time, they
never adapted to the American lifestyle. All I knew was Spanish and
my first year of school would soon come. I would sit at the end of my
driveway and listen to the variety of sounds that slowly crept into my
ear, triggered a reaction and sent confusion running through my mind.
Day after day, I would sit there trying to decode this puzzle word by
word and the day came when I’d be shipped off to school where I was
expected to know English. Kindergarten was one of the hardest years
in my life. I struggled tremendously. I was the last one to know my address,
I was the last one to know my phone number, and I was the one
who almost failed his first year of school. If it wasn’t for my father not
allowing the school to hold me back, I could have become a completely
different person. I struggled throughout my years in elementary school.
I went to resource and received help with my schoolwork until fourth
grade. I was given a big push forward and since then I have come to
realize that I may not be the only one in need. Others will need help
and I will be there with a helping hand.
Through the years, my family has undergone a variety of obstacles.
I saw my brother completely stumble and fall when he impregnated
his girlfriend at the age of sixteen. At the blink of an eye he became a
father to be and a husband. Everything came to a halt and he needed to
support another person. He worked during the night and finished high
school during the day. He struggled even while living at home. As if one
example in my house wasn’t enough, my sister was expecting a child
during her senior year. I remember the day when she told my parents, I
was in the room next door crying in pain because she fell into the same
trap my brother did. That was the end for her. She graduated from high
school and began to work. now she has two daughters and is trying to
make a living. It is hard to see the people you love make mistakes. It
is so hard, that it brings tears to my eyes, to know that you wish you
could say everything will be ok. They are stuck in a rut and I am putting
my best foot forward to give myself the future they don’t have.
When my mother was a child she had suffered a great amount. She
had become deaf in her teenage years. She lost complete ability to hear
in her right ear and partially in the left and to add to all the confusion
she was bound by a language. She was living in America with 4 of 5
senses and a tongue that many could not speak. Many would see this
as a huge dent in her life, but she managed to start a family. I could not
be any more proud of her and thankful for what she has given me. Her
“disability” placed a tremendous amount of pressure on my shoulders.
She was not able to go to the deli or to place phone calls when she
needed to. All of a sudden, all of this had become my responsibility. My
father was too busy breaking his back in order to support our family.
My mother’s personal translator, doesn’t sound too shabby? Standing
in the middle of the store, making hand jesters, mouthing out words,
or even yelling, does attract attention. In those moments I would feel
a surge of heat rush from head to toe, goose bumps in every possible
crevice of my body, and to top it all off I’d be seven shades darker than a
ripe tomato. Shame and embarrassment, how could I feel this way? All
this had become routine and the pain and embarrassment finally started
to subside, a whole new feeling started to emerge, pride. My mother
made me strong. She allowed me to become the man I am today. And
after all the pain there are still countless nights that I lie in bed, crying
due to the burden that was placed on her and the tremendous lesson I
learned. Every sound, every beat, every photon, every little everything
has been absorbed into me one way or another, yet these experiences,
although insignificant to others, mean to world to me. All these events
run through my veins and pump through my heart. I am the passion
that is rarely seen. I am the walking story of struggle.
I coNSIdEr mYSELF To BE mATUrE and focused in my life; I have
goals that I strive for and a strong commitment to my education.
However, I do have my more humorous moments, just as everyone
else. For instance, a few summers ago, my family and I were in Las
vegas on vacation. The over-the-top looking-by-night, eyesore-by-day
city was lighted everywhere, and masses of people were walking along
the Las vegas Strip. One night, we went out to dinner and were walking
back to our hotel. When we got to the entrance of the hotel, which
had automatic sliding doors, there was a huge line waiting to get in,
yet there were many other doors to its side unoccupied. So, naturally,
I said aloud, “Why don’t we just go through those doors,” as I pointed
towards the unoccupied doors. My family just waited patiently, but I
decided to go by myself, so I did, and I walked straight into the EXIT
door. I am not sure who was more injured, myself, or my sister who
collapsed onto the floor in convulsive laughter. I still have not heard
the end of this story, but at least now I can laugh at myself. Many times 
people get discouraged in their hectic and stress-filled lives, but sometimes
you just need a dim-witted accident to occur to put everything
in perspective.
crImE ScENE rEporT
crime: Missing Person
Location: Duke University, 2138 Campus Drive, Box 90586, Durham,
north Carolina 27708-0586
Time: October 2, 2008, 11:00 A.M.
Investigated by: Admissions Officers of Duke University
cASE dEScrIpTIoN:
On the morning of October 2, 2008, at precisely 7:00 A.M., a Miss
Lauren Sanders began to worry. Her future-self entered the gates of a
prestigious university in the fall of 2009 and had not returned home.
Miss Sanders filed a missing person’s report, hoping someone could
help her to locate her future-self in a world of possibilities.
The case began with a grueling interrogation of Miss Lauren Sanders,
the person who knew most about her future-self. However, the questioning
session yielded little information. Miss Sanders could not fully
describe herself in the future. Pressured, she stated that “she has the
ambition to fulfill all of her goals, is both stubborn and industrious,
and wants to experience University life.” Miss Sanders lacked a photograph
of her future-self, but remarked that “she has brown hair, likes to
describe herself as vertically-challenged, and is usually smiling.”
nOTE: While unable to describe her future-self, Miss Sanders believed
that examination of past experiences could possibly assist the admissions
officers in the case. According to Miss Sanders, her future-self
has “volunteered in her community and traveled on a global scale.”
Physical evidence collected during a thorough search of Miss
Sander’s bedroom included a Dell laptop, a collection of Jane Austin
novels, worn textbooks, and an I-pod. Fingerprinting analysis and DnA
processing determined that these items belong to both Miss Sanders
and her future-self, and that they use these items frequently. Despite
biological traces of the future-self found within the home, laboratory
analysis concluded that Miss Sanders’ future-self does not reside within
her hometown.
With information gathered from the physical search of Miss Sanders’
home and Miss Sanders’ interrogation, a database search was conducted
to determine possible universities in which Miss Sanders’ future-self
resided. Within minutes, Duke University appeared as a match.
With this lead, authorities conducted numerous searches at Duke
University in Durham, north Carolina, probing the dorms, library, and
classrooms. All searches yielded nothing, yet the possibility of finding
Miss Sanders’ future-self remains strong. Professors and students alike,
when questioned about Miss Sanders’ future-self, strongly believe that
many individuals like her come to the University to find their potential
paths.
Further examination will be needed to complete this investigation,
including a thorough inspection of Miss Sanders’ resume and letters of
recommendation. Hopefully, the leads that we have will direct us to the
whereabouts of her future-self.
nOTE: According to Miss Sanders, the future-self plans to travel
on a foreign-exchange student program and hopes to conduct research
in one of the many labs available to undergraduates. At present, these
areas have not been searched by professionals.
On the morning of October 2, 2009, at precisely 7:04 A.M., the
admissions officers found Miss Lauren Sanders’ future-self at Duke
University. She had hidden in the incoming student body.
AFTEr SpENdING A wEEK wITh JohN nash, I may have stumbled
upon a central purpose of my life. Well, not nobel Laureate John nash
himself, but whenever I describe Fred, their characteristics seem quite
parallel. Fred is unique, possessing an indomitable spirit to fulfill his
dreams without fear of failure. not only is he the most brilliant young
man I have ever met, he exhibits a genuinely compassionate heart. Sadly,
many people may never recognize Fred as the beautiful individual that
he is, or what he has to offer. While our society may call him “challenged,”
I have come to recognize him as an unexpected role model.
For Fred, you see, is autistic. He does not interact well with people, and
is often unable to express his thoughts clearly or articulately. He doesn’t
understand why people laugh at him. Yet even so, Fred is blessed with
an acute sense of purpose and caring that is unmatched by most—including
perhaps even the most altruistic among us.
Several years ago I traveled with a small group of Fairfax County
high school students to Portland, Oregon to compete as a Finalist in
the Intel International Science and Engineering Fair. I was excited at
what was certain to be an experience of a lifetime—having no clue that
the most valuable lesson would come not from the Science Fair itself,
but from Fred. Because of my prior experiences in working with special
needs children, the school administrators asked me to room with
Fred during the trip. I distinctly recall my initial anxiety and reluctance
about the prospect of taking care of another individual during the
stressful, high-pressure atmosphere of the competition. In retrospect,
though, this was the beginning of an incredible journey for both of
us—but especially for me.
Fred’s passion—actually more of an obsession—is theoretical mathematics.
He eats, breathes, talks, and probably sleeps mathematics, to
the point where he annoys others by his constant chatter about it. His
idea of fun is solving differential equations on a napkin in a fancy restaurant,
oblivious to others wanting to socialize or relax. That Fred is
brilliant is unquestioned, a fact that was clearly evidenced in his science
project where he solved a math problem previously believed by
experts to be insolvable. Yet in his own mind Fred firmly believed his
entire raison d’etre in life was the pursuit of math—and that he was
destined to use his incredible mathematical ability to help make the
world better.
However, Fred’s disabilities were only a fraction of the challenges
that faced him. growing up in a dysfunctional home, he suffered from a
lack of love and patient understanding. Still, Fred’s life revolved around
his relationships and mathematics. Although he has few close friends,
people are indescribably important to him, and he always treated them
with sensitivity and compassion. Unfortunately, some people—including
but not limited to his peers (who can sometimes be quite cruel)—
are unable to set aside their prejudices long enough to see his uniqueness
as the incredible gift that it is. His enthusiasm and his indomitable
spirit in the face of adversity taught me valuable lessons—lessons I will
carry with me for the rest of my life. He taught me to live for what you
truly cherish, to be passionate about your dreams, and to always smile
in both the service of others and adversity. He has shown me the truest
meaning of love for others, and the ability to understand and always 
live for what is important. A trip that started with me “taking care of
him” turned into a trip of substantial personal discovery.
Children with special needs have powerful talents, and if we could
only open our hearts to hear their voices, we would learn what it means
to live without conventional boundaries. I have lived a week with a
genius, not only of the mind, but more importantly, of the heart—and
my life has been permanently changed because of Fred.
I GrEw Up IN A FoUr-room apartment in the middle of Beijing at
the turn of the twentieth century. Common household features such
as the existence of stairs within a house were thought of as decadent
luxuries representative of the incredibly wealthy. My life was simple. At
five years old, it was differentiated by two things, the times I was with
my mother and the times I was not.
My single mother was a chemist and professor at the University of
Beijing. Even at a young age, she distinguished herself from her peers 
with her remarkable ambition and intense passion for learning. From
growing up in the frigid winds of northern Mongolia, to becoming one
of three students to earn a full scholarship to China’s most competitive
university, to working as a government-sponsored chemist in goslar,
germany, my mother accomplished more before I was born than most
people achieved in a lifetime.
Unfortunately, I would not learn of the fabulous successes and arduous
trials of my mother until much, much later. All I could understand
or not understand at five years old was why my mother was rarely
home, why I did not see her for three months during the summer when
I lived with my grandparents, and why I was forced to go to a daycare
owned by a tyrannical monster who would tell ghost stories to make
me cry. Even now, much of my knowledge about my mother’s early life
is something I am still piecing together. As was the case then, my full
understanding of her brilliant yet ill-tempered persona is continually
hindered by the simple troubles of life. Although now, they are the issues
of an eighteen-year old teenager rather than those of a five-year
old child.
I remember nights we would spend together when she was busy
with her research and classes; I would sit in a desk next to her, drawing
pictures and imagine that I was her personal assistant. I also remember
times when I had to stay home alone because she had a
lecture to give or errands to run; I would lean against the window sill
staring down into the bleak, concrete streets waiting and watching
for the return of a petite form in a bright red jacket. Yet despite the
forlorn days and the lonely nights, I feel neither regret nor resentment
towards those early years or my mother. On the contrary, I am incredibly
proud and grateful for all the difficulties she endured in order
to raise me properly. Had it not been for my childhood experiences,
I would not have matured at such an early age or developed such a
strong sense of independence.
We moved to America in the spring of 1997. The transition of cultures
was daunting yet it failed to dishearten my mother. Like every
other experience in her life, she treated the move as an opportunity.
However, even my mother was not immune to the overwhelming cultural
shock, and despite her perseverance and accomplishments, she
continually struggled with the language barrier and the difference in
societal values.
While my mother was forced to labor against such changes, my
young age enabled me to adapt quickly to the new environment.
Unfortunately, my “Americanization” has caused a great deal of mystification
and incomprehension in my mother. not only do our manners
of speaking differ, but we no longer view traditional beliefs the same
way. Her lack of encouragement for my participation in athletics and
her excessive emphasis on my grades have been both frustrating and
upsetting. From my gregarious nature and social outings to my obdurate
refusals to comply with her every long-established demand, she
has been forced to accept the evolution of her daughter from that of
Chinese doll to American teenager.
nevertheless, despite our various differences and my acute assimilation
into another culture, I have never lost sight of what mattered
most to me, nor forgotten the roots of my heritage and rigorous upbringing.
My mother’s persistence and endurance are qualities which I
have proudly assumed and carried with me in every activity of my life.
From facing the ignorant racisms of elementary classmates to the malicious
jealousies of middle school peers, I have never doubted or second
guessed the work ethic and moral code that she instilled in me. Her resourcefulness
has also been highly influential and taught me of the importance
of seeking opportunities. Whether it was working along side
Philadelphia Inquirer journalists or researching marketing strategies for
a startup company, I have learned and developed with each success and
letdown encountered throughout my middle and high school years.
The difficulties of my mother and the difficulties that I faced in two
countries on two continents continue to define and shape my personality
and character. As mother and daughter continue along the journey
of life, I hope that she can come to accept and embrace the daughter
whom she has so diligently raised while I hope to slowly unravel the
full mystery that is my mother and, one day, finally comprehend and
appreciate the entirety of her effect on my life.
AS I SAT AT A TABLE in the corner of a cafe, hunched over a press release
I was writing, I asked myself, “Why is a youth advocate from Long
Island, halfway around the world in South Africa this summer, debating
issues of sustainable development at a United nations conference?”
I needed to meet a deadline for the Youth Caucus at the World Summit
on Sustainable Development (WSSD) after an exhausting but exhilarating
day of lobbying. My goal was to help persuade world leaders at the
largest United nations conference in history that pursuing sustainable
development is essential for the future of our planet. Because I had attended
a previous Un conference about children’s rights, I understood
the importance of sustainable development in this context. Then, I was
chosen to represent SustainUS, a national network of American youth,
at the WSSD. I raised all of the money needed for my trip. I was thrilled
to witness the human spirit in its purest sense, taking collective action
to care for the less fortunate around the globe.
It was one thing to debate language in the conference document
about goals set to provide people in developing nations with access to
water. It was quite another to visit Soweto, only a few kilometers away
from the conference, and to meet poor Africans living in shanties with
limited access to water. This observation embedded in my mind the
seriousness of my work in a way that no statistic could describe. The
challenge on paper seemed quite different from the harshness of Soweto
and Alexandria and the long-suffering faces and pleading eyes of the
beggars there. I reminded myself that I needed to work around the
clock while I was in South Africa to help these impoverished people.
After arriving in Johannesburg this past August, I traveled to the
International Youth Summit. I drafted the youth declaration which was
used for lobbying, and I helped to write a statement from the youth
delegates for government representatives to read and consider while
negotiating. While at the WSSD, aside from writing daily press releases
that became Associated Press and reuters articles, I drafted speeches
which were presented to the delegates, including over one hundred
heads of state. I experienced an adrenaline rush when I fielded questions
from reporters during a press conference. These challenging situations
were new learning opportunities for me and provided me with
knowledge much different from what one learns in high school. I want
to learn more about the histories of international financial institutions
and the ways they interact with national governments.
As a result of my attending the World Summit, I have gained a
new perspective on global politics and its effects on people’s lives. The
thought that people from around the world can join together to solve a
global issue never fails to impress and inspire me.
My participation in the WSSD has taught me more about the convergence
of politics, international relations and the environment than
I have learned in any other activity or in the classroom. Working with
others to reveal the crucial need for sustainable development is essential
to our world’s successful future. All of my experiences have helped
me to understand how international meetings operate and to accept the
responsibility that comes with the privilege to attend and contribute to
the solution.
NoVEmBEr 23, Two YEArS AGo: ThANKSGIVING. My mom and
I celebrated the holiday as we had done for the last three years—by
delivering turkey dinners to homebound senior citizens. After carrying
the food to their kitchens, our brief visits with them were filled with
laughter, hugs, and the sharing of family photo albums. In the midst of
all the warmth and vitality, though, I couldn’t help noticing the signs of
loneliness and isolation: the windows with dust suggesting they hadn’t
been open in ages, the faded Christmas cards from 1995, and the tables
with a single place setting. It was during these visits that I committed to
find a way to better connect with the seniors in my community.
I discussed my desire with the mayor of Fremont in December two
years ago. He agreed that a younger voice could prove to be beneficial
and mentioned the Senior Citizen Commission for the City of Fremont
(an advisory board to City Council that worked to directly address the
needs of local seniors). I formally applied to the Commission and was
unanimously appointed by City Council in February last year, becoming
the youngest Commissioner in Fremont’s history.
Although I was initially met with skepticism from my fellow Senior
Citizen Commissioners, I was committed to sharing my vision of the
benefits of intergenerational interactions. For the next two months, my
after-school hours were devoted to calling nursing homes, negotiating
with movie theater managers, and recruiting teen volunteers. The
resulting event was the Senior Movie Outing, which paired teenagers
with wheelchair-bound seniors for a fun afternoon at the movies.
As a result of my hard work on the successful outing and the rave
reviews from all who participated, my fellow Commissioners became
more respectful of my contributions and open to my input. During the
annual grant-reviewing period (when the Commission decides which 
non-profit organizations will receive City funding), I advocated to fund
Lavender Seniors, an organization which supports gay and lesbian seniors.
While it had not previously been funded by the City, I strongly
believed it fell within the Commission’s charter of “serving the needs of
all seniors.” After sharing my rationale for proposing to fund Lavender
Seniors, I was proud that the Commissioners kept an open mind and
the majority voted to grant the organization funding.
In the two years since my appointment, I have cherished the unique
opportunities I have had to learn from people with different perspectives
and backgrounds. My time on the Commission has taught me to
be more confident when expressing my ideas, and to be more open to
hearing others’ thoughts. I am proud to be a trusted voice for seniors
in my community.
AT mY AGE, FEw pEopLE cAN genuinely claim that they have had
a life-changing experience. After attending Leadership in the Business
World (LBW) at the Wharton School last summer, I became one of
those fortunate people to have experienced a life-changing academic
program. Four weeks of meeting business executives, working with
teammates through the night perfecting our professional business plan,
experiencing the independence and responsibility that will come with
college . . . none of this was advertised in the brochure for LBW, but all
of this is what made it uniquely meaningful to me.
The business leadership program centered on one culminating activity:
the prestigious LBW Business Plan Competition. As we prepared
for this, we heard from Wharton faculty members and many corporate
heavyweights including Brian roberts, CEO of Comcast Corporation.
Meeting educators, executives and entrepreneurs broadened my
knowledge of business, created a strategic network of connections and
proved profoundly inspiring; nothing motivates me more than see-
ing hard work and sharp thinking reach fruition. I vividly remember
when a managing director of a venture capital firm singled me out for
a networking demonstration. Expecting me merely to pretend to hand
him a fake business card, he was dumbfounded by impressed when he
glanced back as he accepted an actual business card from my tutoring
business. As my business card now rested in Mr. Kimmel’s rolodex
next to elegant cards from established businesspeople, a lesson was
ingrained in my mind about acting uniquely in order to distinguish
myself in a field of equally qualified and eager peers.
Despite the inherently competitive nature of LBW, I established
enduring friendships with students from far-reaching places, such as
Shanghai and Accra. We shared stories over meals in Houston Hall
about life at home and engaged in heated discussions about business
ethics. regardless of the origin of our passports, we became a family
while learning about each other’s cultures and future business aspirations.
The lessons of compassion and hard work from the business
plan competition also heightened my experience. Once when a fellow
marketing officer was struggling with determining channels of distribution
for our product, I disregarded trying to seem individually superior,
and we cooperatively tackled the problem. Putting the team before the
individual was a concept that materialized itself during my experience.
The bonds between all of the students and advisors spurred my entrepreneurial
spirit as I experienced how friendship supports business.
I knew this experience had changed me forever when I triumphantly
concluded our team’s business presentation, confidently promoting
our product and connecting with a crowd of peers and venture capitalists.
During the evening following the presentations, my fellow teammates
and I beamed with boundless relief and pride when the vCs
announced our team, EnTECH LLC, as the first place winners of the
competition. Exploring and honing my business and entrepreneurial
skills was intimidating initially, yet with creativity, hard work and an
unparalleled group dynamic of cooperation, this experience cemented
my passion for business and opened grand doors of opportunity.
“All I know about leadership I learned from . . .” What items could a person
use to describe leadership qualities?
Inspired by the student council advisors at my high school.
STUdENT coUNcIL wAS A BIG pArT of my life in high school. I
have participated in it since my first year of high school. When I first
joined, I was quiet, naïve, and unwilling to participate in many activities.
I was scared to meet new people and afraid to apply myself. This
all began to change. Half way through my first year in student council,
one of the advisors can up to me and asked why I did not participate
that much. I did not have an answer for her and did not know how to
respond. After this, I began to think of an answer. I became frustrated
and decided to change. I started to show up at events and had a great
time. I realized I loved this and wanted to start leading these activities.
In my sophomore, junior, and now my senior year of high school, I asserted
myself and took on a strong leadership role in student council.
I did not figure out the answer to why I was so reserved until this year
with the help of this question.
When I looked up leadership in the dictionary, it said that it was the
capacity to lead and the act or instance of leading. These are two very
broad definitions of leadership. Many people have different notions of
what this word actually means. When I was challenged to use different
items to describe what leadership actually is, I thought this was going
to be a hard and obnoxious task. What could I learn from comparing
leadership to a stuffed animal or a rubber chicken? But when I sat 
down to come up with a couple of answers, I realized that leadership
could be compared to almost anything a person wants.
All I know about leadership I learned from a calculator. A calculator
can add everything together to come up with the best answer. It can
delete what is unnecessary and only include what is important. It can
solve any type of problem. These are all important equalities a leader
has to have. A leader has to be able to add all of the ideas together to
make the best possible plan. Leaders have to know how to decipher the
good and the bad out of an idea. They have to be versatile and know
how to deal with different types of issues.
All I know about leadership I learned from a ball. A ball is able to
bounce back up after it is dropped. It is round and has no creases. A
ball can be thrown back and forth to different people. All of these qualities
are also leadership qualities. A leader has to be ready for every situation
that is thrown at him or her. He or she has to be able to bounce
back from any setbacks and never dwell on the past. Leaders have to
exhibit many qualities and never be closed-minded about a situation.
A leader must be able to delegate when he or she cannot get the work
done. They have to trust everyone they lead to be able to “catch the
ball” and keep a project rolling.
This activity made me realize that being a leader is so much more
than just having authority and having the ability to take control of a
situation. A leader has to be trusting of all the people he or she leads
and, leaders must be able to combine ideas into one encompassing
idea. They cannot sit in the background and watch events happen; they
have to jump in and be involved. They should not delegate all their
responsibilities away.
Leadership is more than what the dictionary says it is.
I learned through all of this that I have many of these qualities.
I have the ability to solve problems, lead through adversity, and be
versatile. From answering this question, I realized that I could lead effectively,
even if my leadership style is different from other individuals.
When I joined student council in my first year of high school, I did
not have these qualities because I was never put into a situation where
I had to lead. I was too reserved to try. When I tried, I learned that I
could succeed in this. I did not realize until I answered this question
about leadership. I was never able to see that being a leader is not just
about taking control of a group and telling everyone what to do. When 
I was a freshman, I thought leadership was this. I did not know that I
did not have to be forceful and strict. I stereotyped a leader then. This
is where I went wrong. A leader is about being yourself and never letting
anyone change you. I thought I had to change to be a good leader.
Only when I expanded my comfort zone did I realize this was not true.
It only took three years and a silly question/game to figure this out.
pEopLE SAY ThAT INNEr BEAUTY mATTErS more than outer beauty.
But when I looked into the mirror and saw my face covered with
unsightly blemishes, it was hard to tell myself that and believe it. By
the time I entered high school, my acne had gotten worse, and my
self-esteem was at an all-time low. So in the summer of ninth grade, I
embarked on an unexpectedly difficult and emotionally trying quest
for clear skin, an experience that culminated in one of my proudest
achievements.
My typical daily diet consisted of sugary cereal for breakfast; salty
turkey sandwiches, soda, and chips for lunch; a candy bar for snack;
and rice and fried noodles for dinner. I never thought that my diet
would be a cause of my acne, but the possibility first came to me when
I was reading a skincare article. Desperate for a cure, I searched “clear
skin diet” on the Internet. The websites that turned up all echoed the
same message: a balanced and healthy diet is crucial for beautiful skin.
The recommended foods listed included large portions of fruits, veg-
etables, grains, nuts, and fish; 8 glasses of water daily and only small
amounts of high-sodium, high-fat, and high-sugar foods. I researched
further and found out that the expensive chemical cleansers that I
had been using were not the answer—gentle face washes and a coat
of sunblock were inexpensive products that could reduce breakouts. I
knew that changing my entire diet and skincare routine would require
a tremendous amount of commitment and willpower. But determined
to improve my skin and my self-confidence, I began to transform my
lifestyle. I started by incorporating fruits and vegetables into my meals
and replacing sugary cereal with whole grains, chips with carrots, and
fried noodles with salmon. For a long, painful week, I stuck to this diet
and restrained myself from any junk food. My skin condition changed
gradually but substantially. By the end of the week, my skin was noticeably
smoother, clearer, and brighter. Yet I found myself relapsing,
unable to continue for long without indulging myself, unable to swallow
the horribly plain salads and chewy carrots. Every time I stopped,
the acne came back. It came to the point where I despised the acne and
coveted the clear skin enough to force myself back on track. It became
an excruciating pattern of cravings and self-restraint. I struggled with
these two impulses until I became used to healthy eating, even enjoying
it. now, two years later, my skin is better than ever and I have never
gone back to eating the way I had before.
I have no awards or medals to show for my particular achievement.
But no academic distinction in the world can match what I gained from
my experience with changing my diet: healthier skin, self-confidence,
and newfound mental strength. Above all, I realized that by improving
my outer appearance, I had enriched my inner appearance.
ThE hINdU God, BrAhmA, SEEING ThE plight of a society tainted
by envy and greed, presents a boy with a drum that he can only hear,
not see. This instrument, which is supposed to bring patience and discipline
to humanity, is the foundation of Indian classical music. The
boy has yet to discover that musicians use this tool to speak, allowing
their minds to transmit messages through the vibrant pulsations of
their notes.
My guru told me this story when I began learning the tabla, a north
Indian classical drum. Though he never revealed the ending, he offered
one clue. “It doesn’t matter how fast your hands can beat the drum if
your mind cannot keep up with them.”
A typical American teenager, I had always yearned for raw strength
and speed on the tabla. I thought those were the qualities that made the
perfect percussionist. During concerts, I saw musicians’ fingers gliding
across the head of the drum producing the extraordinary impression of
force, immediacy of genius and intensity of passion that left audiences
spellbound. I knew that to become the best at tabla, I needed to display
my talent in a similar way. I wanted to play equally as fast and forcefully,
even if it meant sacrificing precision for power.
I asked my guru to train me to play like the maestros, but he said I
lacked mental focus; I didn’t listen to or enjoy my music. He believed
the mind and body must be in sync in order to master the instrument.
I never fully understood this concept until the imagination of one visually
handicapped child attuned my mind to the beat of the drum.
As a summer volunteer at the Braille Institute in Anaheim, I developed
the musical talents of blind elementary school children through
teaching the tabla. My friends and I bought instruments and music
with the money that we made during a summer recycling program in
our neighborhood. During our first class, the children jumped into action,
thumping erratically on their instruments. I chuckled at the sight
of nine jubilant youngsters producing musical mayhem.
Chaandni was different. Shy and reserved, she felt the drum’s
smooth texture and stroked the soft middle portion of the drum head.
I stood astonished as she performed her ritual. Tap. Listen. Smile. Tap. 
Listen. Smile. I could see her contemplating the emerging rhythm and
resonance of each successive pulse. Watching a budding musician feel
the delicate timbre of each drumbeat is a thrilling sensation.
I learned more from observing than I did through years of erratic
practice. Chaandni would eagerly listen to a musical piece, then strike
incessantly until she produced a matching pitch. When she stumbled,
she would sit patiently pinpointing her mistake. She didn’t speak; her
insight and emotion glowed through her music. For the first time in
my life I felt the depth of the drums. For the first time, I truly comprehended
and loved the instrument.
She was indeed a special soul. Her curiosity was insatiable; her regard
for the drum was incomparable; her smile was inspiring. Her joyful
progress inspired me to perform in London this summer with my
guru. Driven by the spirit of a young girl who never let her disability
impede her innate talent, I played gracefully in front of hundreds of
spectators and cherished the inner triumph.
I am a living example of Brahma’s story. The combination of grace
and force on the tabla is my channel for communicating emotions. My
tale ends with the appreciation that the mind is a beautiful vehicle for
the drum.
I USEd To SpENd ENdLESS NIGhTS wide-eyed, anxiously dreading
a high school life teeming with harsh peers and hollow hallways,
immersed in a cold atmosphere eternally void of familiarity’s warm
embrace. I’ll admit that this is not a hopeful vision; nevertheless, I cer-
tainly risked accepting this ugly reality when I supported my family’s
decision to uproot itself and move from new Jersey to Florida after my
freshman year.
Somewhat flexible, my parents gave me a significant voice in the
decision as I would be most profoundly affected. Yet, I had spent my
entire life in the same cozy center-hall colonial in the same new Jersey
suburb. I had known my friends since youth, when we had snowball
fights during the icy winter and ran through lawn sprinklers during
the summer. Teachers knew my family and cordially greeted me in the
halls. I could never move. In my mind, I was set!
Or was I? Instinct tugged at my heart, something was missing in
my life because life is not about being “set.” Lured by the concept of a
fresh start, I yearned for the chance to write my own story. As the son of
Indian immigrants, I had adventure in my blood; the time had come to
venture beyond my comfort zone and stake a unique claim in Florida.
The first few months were trying; only birds joined me during lunch
and I spend weekends alone writing introspective poetry. My fifteenth
birthday centered on a family discussion about our affection for our
new home while Hurricane Charley pounded the life out of Florida.
I regretted moving. By fortuitous research, however, I learned more
about innovative entrepreneurs who were shaping our world. I have
not looked back since.
My self-inflicted adversity finally evoked personal growth. I constantly
introduced myself to strangers and pursued my passions in
different activities. By launching and supporting community organizations,
I transformed into a proactive leader as I overcame difficulties
in varied contexts. Continuously seeking challenges in the community
and IB Program, I teamed up with other motivated citizens and students
to thrive and contribute to my new home.
Today I am highly involved in my community with many friends
and mentors. nobody knows me for my family or childhood, just for
who I am today. The results of my own decisions and actions mean
much more than what has been bestowed upon me. I would risk it
all again because I know that I can only enjoy what I have earned.
Breaking away from the risk-averse crowd that holds an exaggerated
fear for what can be lost has been refreshing. I have gained trust in myself
to defy odds because I never would have dreamt of the happiness
and accomplishments that I have been honored to achieve in Florida. 
College will certainly thrust a fiercer Hurricane Charley at me, but I
will stare it straight in the eye and exceed expectations, eventually leaving
an enduring legacy for the world through my entrepreneurial and
philanthropic endeavors.
A ThIN ShArd oF SUNLIGhT SLIcEd through the vent of the windowless,
cold, and cramped one bedroom basement apartment. The
apartment stood three stories high with its weight suffocating the basement.
I sat on the stained carpet, alone, playing with my one and only
prized Hot Wheels car. My mother was working her ten-hour shift as a
minimum wage waitress and my father was nowhere to be found. My
father left our family when I turned three-years old. He also left the
burden of his reckless gambling debt to my mother and left us to fend
for ourselves. At the time, my mother barely spoke any English, yet she
had to find work in order to support us. She became occupied with
work, so I was frequently isolated at home. The house on Wellington
Avenue in Daly City evolved to represent all the suppression my mother
and I endured. As a child, wherever I could go to be away from the
cell, I went.
A few days after my eleventh birthday, I trudged home on an afternoon
to discover our house robbed again, this time of my mother’s
savings for the following month’s rent and my new “Stingray 5000”
water gun. I burst into tears and cried in my mother’s fragile arms. It
was that moment I vowed to do something about our situation. I was
tired living in that horrid house, being deprived of my mother because
of her demanding work schedule, and feeling like the whole world was
constantly against us. Early in my childhood, I realized that our family
was financially poor, because of that, I wanted to be rich in knowledge.
Every day after school, I would take the transit to the Daly City Public
Library where I could be away from the miserable house and focus on 
my studies. It was there that I would max out my library card to read
Harry Potter novels and sit at the wide tables with my head in textbooks
and magazines, searching for a better life. My mother knew the anger
I had for the house, as a result, she would indirectly encourage me to
channel out my negative feelings for the house into positive ones for
learning by dropping by the library after work with apple juice for me.
My appreciation for my mother is great because she still managed to set
time aside from her work to attend to my needs. My objective was to
gain all the knowledge I could, in hope of devising a plan to get us out
of the Wellington Black Hole. At one point, I spent a whole Saturday
looking for some sort of mathematical equation that would cure our
blight. Enriching my knowledge was my naïve way of trying to improve
and control our bleak situation. Fortunately, my mother’s relentless effort
for work allowed us to move to a better part of Daly City.
When I finally got my driver’s license at the age of sixteen, after a
vigorous curriculum of driver’s education, driving lessons, and a driving
test, the first place I drove my mother’s old Toyota Camry was to
the house on Wellington Avenue. The freedom of driving allowed me to
explore a place where I had been trapped in for so long. Crouched on
the warm cement, I glanced pass the faded wooden walls and peered
through the constricting vent to see the three year old that once sat on
the cold floor. As I stood with the sun shining on my back, I acknowledged
that my mother and I were given a situation that we did not
choose, but we ultimately became the ones who changed the course of
our lives. A photo of the Wellington house sits on my bedroom window
edge, casting a small shadow when sun light beams in. It serves as a
painful reminder of my background, and an inspiration to continue
excelling in life, even when unfavorable conditions dominate.
I SAT ThErE, STUNNEd For AN instant, and then jumped as high as
I could and screamed as loud as my voice would allow. Blood rushed
through my entire body, while the butterflies in my stomach finally
flew away. I had just received my LAMDA Diploma with Honors, a task
that has only been done by one person before me. LAMDA, the London
Academy of Music and Dramatic Arts, comes to my high school, as
well as others in the states, and gives what are essentially acting exams.
In these exams, you must perform a series of monologues, and to
receive the Diploma you must perform four five-minute monologues,
one pre-1910, one post-1980, one Shakespearean, and one of your
choice. I had worked for weeks on my monologues, perfecting them as
much as I could, staying after school, working at lunch, even at home,
despite the shouting by my sister for me to stop. When it came time
to perform, I was incredibly nervous; however, after I came out of my
performance, I lingered outside the theater, waiting upon my results,
and when they came, I was astounded. not only was I able to pass my 
exam, but also I came out of it with greater knowledge of theater than
I had when I started. I learned a great deal from taking these various
exams, most notably the age old lesson that hard work does pay off.
The personal splendor I felt was one that I had never felt before, and I
live to feel it again.
mUSIc hAS ShApEd mY pErSoNAL ANd intellectual life in many
ways. Music is a common language that connects me to others who
share my enthusiasm for creating it. Furthermore, I learn about my
own preferences and personality through the pieces that intrigue me.
As I expose myself to a wider array of styles and eras, my musical tastes 
grow more complex. Through music, I welcome opportunities to expand
my friendships as well as my instrumental horizons.
I began studying piano at age six. For the next five years, my mother
lived vicariously through my musical education, which her family had
not been able to afford. In fifth grade, as I was becoming an earnest
piano student, I was selected to commence violin lessons and play in
my elementary school orchestra. From that day on, I saw life from a
violinist’s point of view.
Although I am a seasoned pianist, an ambitious solo violinist, and a
fledgling cellist, I am, above all, a passionate chamber musician. My experience
in a chamber quartet has had a strong impact on my character.
When I was the second violinist, I simply enjoyed making music with
my friends. Only after I became the first violinist did I feel the responsibility
of leadership settling uncomfortably on my shoulders. However,
the burden soon became a part of me and transformed into enthusiasm.
now, as the quartet leader, I use the small group setting to channel each
of our individual creative instincts. Each member of the quartet shares
her musical interests, bringing favorite repertoire to the table, so that
we each participate in the learning and playing experience. The quartet
is also an outlet for my musical fancy. Ever since I discovered the
Finale music writing software, I have delighted in arranging works for
our quartet to play and perform. This year, my goal is to arrange and
perform the Ferrante and Teicher version of the love theme from The
Godfather for a piano duet and orchestra.
As my aspirations grow, I aim to arrange music for a greater variety
of instruments and to explore jazz, pop, and other styles of music
on the piano. I desire to join others with similar talent and passion at
Duke. However, before I leave my high school, I hope my appreciation
for music will leave a mark on my community.
I rAN AroUNd NErVoUSLY, YELLING AT my parents to wait downstairs;
I did not want them to see anything that was going on. I rushed
as fast as I could to make my bed, something most teenagers do not
usually do. I made sure everything was in proper order as I called my
parents up to my room. As I placed the last pillow on the bed, I acquired
a sense of completion and achievement. I had done it; I designed
and redecorated my bedroom. It was at this point when I, in my
heart, became an interior designer.
This picture represents more than just a bedroom to me; it is my
first step on a path that I hope directs me to fulfillment. Designing
my bedroom allowed me to explore the creative aspect of my life, and
I was, and still am, able to appreciate the amount of creative talent I
possess. It has become an intense passion in my life and I value this a
great deal. This process illustrated the creative potential that I possess
within myself, and I know that I can apply this promise in any aspect
of my life.
One of the greatest features of this project I took on is that I was able
to see the results of my actions immediately. It was a hands-on experience
that I enjoyed to its fullest, and I was exultant with the outcome.
Overall, this project was a great success in my eyes, and even in the
eyes of my family and friends who are amazed at my capabilities with
design. However, as the designer, I do get frustrated with infinitesimal
flaws. On the wall to the left of my bed there are two shelves and
framed artwork that I created myself. In the process of the installation, I
centered these shelves and artwork on the wall; however, the palm tree
that I placed in the corner covers up one of the frames. I now know that
it probably would have been better if I moved the shelves and artwork
to the left of the wall. The importance of this is not the flaw itself, but in
the fact that I learned from what I had done and know how to improve
myself the next time. Overall, I feel the room came out beautifully and
it symbolizes my first true triumph with design.
Though this project meant a great deal to me emblematically, I
also just had fun with it. Utilizing my imagination, and figuring out
how I was going to make things work within the room was simply 
enjoyable. not only was the design process pleasurable, but also the
actual painting, nailing, and organizing itself was satisfying. I was also
able to bond with my father through the project. He joined me in my
most successful achievement of the room—the design and creation of
the headboard. This venture and this picture epitomize my success. I
consider my bedroom to be an elegant, contemporary work of art, and
this picture embodies all the work I put into my design as well as the
sense of achievement I received after its completion.
I STood BEhINd ThE cUrTAINS LISTENING to the applause to the
previous act. I exhaled, realizing that this was a moment that fulfilled
my childhood wish. Tonight was special because instead of an alto aria
or a jazz lick, I had prepared a song unique to my identity. I curled my
fingers around the microphone and waited impatiently as the curtains
opened.
My love for performance stemmed from my appreciation of music
as a child. In the city in China where I spent the first ten years of my
life, I never found a choir to join and never laid eyes on a grand piano.
nonetheless, I treasured my passion for song and sought ways to bring
music into my life. I sang with our old record player when I was barely
tall enough to reach it. On certain afternoons, my best friend and I
would tape bed sheets to the ceiling as curtains and invite neighbors to
come listen. There, we sang in duet, danced, and bowed while clasping
each other’s hands. Captured in our own musical sanctuary, we never
noticed the hours that passed by.
Music evokes in me the emotions that words and pictures cannot.
I also revel in the intellectual challenges that music offers. I find it
thrilling to tackle difficult, delicious repertoire, and I enjoy composing
my own melodies. Through music, I can share and celebrate my past.
When I was asked to share my cultural talents at my high school, I
looked for a song that my mother sang when I was young, but I could
not find the sheet music. A week before tonight, I sat down by the old
piano in the practice room at school. With only the old tune ringing
faintly in my mind, my hands soon took a life of their own and experimented
with chords, arpeggios, and trills. I superimposed these on the
original melody and composed variations. My voice, too, frolicked with
the piano as I sang the tune repeatedly. I was lost in another musical
paradise. I felt like a child again, tucked under the covers, listening to
my mother’s song as I drifted away to dreams.
now, dressed in an old Chinese dress that my mother had worn
in her youth, I stepped onto the empty stage illuminated by pale blue
light. I held the microphone up to my lips and smiled before starting.
Then, I brought to life the beautiful ballad that had brightened my 
childhood in China. My mind overflowed with warm memories of that
faraway city as I lulled the audience with my melody. When I caught
my mother’s face in the audience, I knew she nestled in the same air of
nostalgia.
Music allows me to present my native culture and contribute to the
diversity in my community. It has stimulated my mind and provided an
outlet for my creativity. To me, nothing is more pleasurable than being
imaginative. Carrying my childhood love of music through my teenage
years has been a gratifying experience, and I look forward to continuing
in my undergraduate years.
The summer before my freshman year and again two years later, we
spent two weeks in Costa rica, living with families there and working
both helping build a renovation on a church there and playing with
children in a refugee settlement called Pavas. The year in between, we
ran a day camp for underprivileged children in San Antonio, Texas, and
the summer before my junior year, we did various kinds of service in
Columbus, Ohio. For our winter trips, we have done urban outreach
in new York City and in Miami, trying to use those experiences to help
our downtown church improve its outreach ministries. My service experience
with church goes beyond these trips twice a year, though. I
spend several evenings each year volunteering in the homeless shelter
in my church’s gym both with youth group and with my family. We also
go as a family each year early on Christmas morning to serve breakfast
at the shelter and celebrate the holiday with the guests. These are pieces
of the categories I call “Central Presbyterian Church youth group” and
“Community Service” that I didn’t have space for in the box, but that
mean a lot to me and play huge roles in my life.
Another experience that I haven’t found a space for is the Maine
Coast Semester, the four months I spent on Chewonki neck in Maine
during the fall of my junior year. Although my essay provides one snapshot
of the experience, it cannot possibly speak to everything the semester
meant to me. Moving out of my family’s house and into a cabin
with six girls my own age was extremely exciting for me, and what
I found when I got there was even better than what I had expected.
It was a place I could relate to. In science class, we would learn to
identify the trees and wildlife that were living just outside our cabins.
In the afternoon, working on the farm, we would lovingly tend the
animals and plants that we would then harvest, prepare in the kitchen,
and eat. Each of us realized our connection to every other member
of the Chewonki community and to the land itself, and learned to be
responsible with that connection. When I was assigned to collect recyclables
before breakfast for my morning chore, I showed up just as
promptly and with just as much energy as when my chore was to milk
the cows or to clean the bathrooms. Similarly, when a teacher asked me
to read an assignment for homework, I got it done, not simply because
I wanted to keep a good grade, but because the entire class depended
on each person’s individual preparation in order to have rich, meaningful
discussion.
Coming home, I realized that here, too, I was connected to my community.
Although it is larger than the one in Maine, I still have the same
responsibility to those around me, and will have that responsibility to
whatever community I am part of for the rest of my life. In my daily life,
just like on my service trips, I try to look for chances to benefit something
greater than myself. In college, I look forward to becoming part
of a new community, and figuring out how to find my niche, so that I
can serve that community as well as be served by it.
One of Stanford’s essay prompts is to provide a photo and explain its
significance.
I oNcE BELoNGEd To roYALTY, STroLLING along the lush pastures
of grass and enormous spires of renaissance structure. Unfortunately,
I was not given a crown on my voyage, even though I felt the crown
when visiting the grand castle in Spain. The picture shown is important
to me not only because of the spectacular view, but it also represents
my passions for the study of Spain’s cultural
history and literature as well as how
those subjects offer clues to discovering
my individuality.
Traveling to Spain gave me the
chance of a lifetime to explore its history
with respect to my personality. In
the photograph, the castle in the background
once belonged to the great royal
unifiers of Spain named Ferdinand and
Isabella. With their process of unification
came the exploration of the
Americas. Explorers such as Christopher
Columbus established Spanish territories in the new World, such as
Colombia, which is the country my parents are from, and I was born.
From this chain of causality, Spain’s history essentially created my existence.
Pondering about my historical background from Spain, perhaps
I would have never been born if the king and queen never unified
Spain. I could be speaking Arabic if the expulsion of the Moors
never occurred under the hands of the Spanish monarchs. Curiously, 
I could have been born as an Indian native, because the new World
would have never been explored. Perhaps, I wouldn’t be looking at
the same photo, explaining its significance! Frankly, exploring Spain’s
history has enabled me to discover my origins. When viewing the
picture through my point of view, I see myself returning the roots of
my creation.
Spain also offers a vibrant history of literary works and significant
innovations in Hispanic literature. Similar to the exploration of history
leading to a clue for learning about myself, I have the ability to explore
the literature the Hispanic culture has to offer. Knowing two languages
allows me to discover the essence of ideas authors such as gabriel
garcía Márquez, Jorge Luis Borges, and Cervantes wanted to convey
to their audience. Since language is to a code for ideas, I can decipher
two different kinds of codes, English and Spanish, to understand the
author’s emotions placed into his or her literature. Spanish literature
also enhances Hispanic culture as a positive influence in the world.
reading literature in Spanish and English consequently has allowed
me to further search for clues about my cultural origins, since Spanish
literature is considered a voice among the people.
Perhaps my interest in these two subjects came from knowing I
come from a Colombian family. I am the first in our family to be born
in the United States, and as a result, I represent two different cultures.
Knowing I come from a culturally different family, I feel passionate
about exploring my family’s cultural roots because it is a method to
discover clues about my individuality, as well as the origins of my family.
In the USA, the last names of Aguado or granados are rarely found
among common Americans. When I traveled to Spain, I purchased
wooden plaques showing the coat of arms from my ancestors bearing
the Aguado and granados names. When I found these plaques commemorating
my family, I had felt I found yet another clue to my personality,
since my last names were found from Spain (similar to finding
a needle in a haystack). Finding my coat of arms on my trip proves my
origins lie within the history and culture of Spain. The trip to Spain
gave me the opportunity to explore my existence as a human being, as
well as knowing from where I came.
Based on my perceptions, my picture represents to me the complex
evolution of my personality, since I am constantly finding new clues
leading to the understanding of who I am. This picture is a part of my 
constant search for my individuality and is a reminder of the beginning
of my personal exploration. This is my crown.
ThE BUzzING oF ThE ALArm cLocK suddenly stops and, to my
surprise, I am awakened not by the noise but by the silence, rudely
jerked from my sleep. Six forty-five, the numbers read. I pull my comforter
tighter under my chin and close my eyes, fully intending to get
up in a few minutes. I’m sure I’ll wake back up in a few minutes, but
not yet. I can’t do it yet.
“Lolo!” someone’s whispering to me, in my dreams I’m sure. “Lolo,
get up! Aren’t you coming?” Coming where? One instant of confusion.
Only one blissful instant, and then it all makes sense. It’s Saturday.
“Yeah, I’m coming.” The listlessness of my voice surprises me. I groan
and fold the thick layers of blankets off of me. The frigid December air
pounces. As I watch, thousands of tiny bumps germinate on my arms,
and the fine hairs stand alarmingly straight. After getting out of bed and
pulling on my bathing suit, I eagerly throw my winter coat around my
arms and shoulders. I debate crawling back in my bed. no one said I
had to do it.
I look at my cabinmates, and I push that thought from my mind.
Although Lucy and Tuna stay nestled in their beds, Cara is pulling a
sweatshirt over her head. Emily and Constanza are standing quietly,
fully dressed, and Sarah is duct-taping a pair of flip-flops on her bare
feet. Shoes. I had almost forgotten. I open the door, and look down at
our tiny porch. My tennis shoes are indeed there, frozen solid. I force
the unyielding layers of ice around my feet, wincing. The laces crunch,
and small crystals of ice fall gently to the floor as I tie a bow on each
shoe. Everyone is ready. It’s time to go.
I wrap my arm through Constanza’s as we step off the last wooden
step from the cabin. The air isn’t so bad out here--probably a few degrees
above zero. My feet begin to tingle and then to burn. We trudge
through the snow as quickly as possible, and I’m sure my excitement
is visible on my face.
Soon, we can see the water of the Sheepscot river, stained with thin
sheets of ice. Most people would say we’re out of our minds. My friends
back in Atlanta will call me crazy. I grin. Squeezing Constanza’s hand
on one side and Emily’s on the other, I stumble through the mud left
by the receding tide.
“One, two, three!” We count together and sprint into the icy water,
diving under the surface just for an instant. As we clamber out of the
water and toward our chilled towels, our semester-mates cheer wildly.
The next threesome heads toward the water.
Later in the morning, the thirty-six students at Maine Coast Semester
file into the dining hall for breakfast, about twenty of us dripping wet
and beaming. Five of us sport shorts and sunglasses in a foolish attempt
to defy the cold. I follow my friends to a table where a large book stands
open, and sign my name under the heading “Polar Bears: December
7.” As I sit eating my bagel, I catch the eye of a wet-headed polar bear
across the room and we smile together.
ThE qUIcK rIppING oF ThIcK TApE and the heavy thuds of cardboard
boxes echo throughout an empty, unfamiliar, and lonely house.
As the heavy boxes are slowly opened and their contents revealed, my
young heart jumps for joy. There, within that scant and unexpectedly 
durable shell of cardboard, lie my invaluable possessions. After removing
the bubbly layer of protection from my valuables, I begin to place
them, one by one, onto my familiar, yet strangely new shelf.
I first lift out my ragged and faithful stuffed animal Mr. Teddy.
Though torn, dirty and missing his left eye, he reminds me of my
youth and the one constant friendship in my life. He has traveled with
me thousands upon thousands of miles to and from each of the seven
vastly different living experiences that have defined my life. Mr. Teddy
has been there with me throughout the difficulty of every one of the
transitions in my life.
next, I pull out a small, fragile lamp decorated with blue and white
pinstripes. A small yellow duck lives at the bottom of the glass compartment.
As I fumble with the rotating switch, I see that only two of
the three different settings are properly working. now, after years of
travel, only the nightlight and brightest setting work. I leave the light
on at its brightest setting and place it on my night table. The brightness
comforts me.
I return to the box to pull out my thick, denim blue journal and
my favorite ink pen. I flip through the pages, pausing to glance at my
informal collection of favorite pictures of friends, articles, and tidbits
of memories that I have compiled through the stages in my life. I open
to the last section of the book and glance at my favorite quotations alphabetically
sorted by subject and author. I look up Woody Allen and
smile at his ridiculously funny honesty and place my journal on the
ledge next to my window.
After refueling my ink pen I scoop up my carefully packaged rosary
and Bible. As I crack open the case, the pearl white beads of my rosary
glint in the sunlight and my ivory covered Bible, given to me on my
First Communion, opens to the front page. There, written in my aunt’s
handwriting, is a greeting written in Spanish and signed by my now
deceased grandparents. These two items represent one of my only connections
to my relatives and the history of my family in Colombia: a
common religion and a belief in Providence.
After saying a quick prayer of thanksgiving I pull out my final and
most necessary possession. The dust flies off the glass as I blow across
the surface. There, under the grime of travel, lies my own face fixed in
time. Enclosed within a light maple frame, a color photograph captures
my eleven year old self clothed in bright purple soccer shorts and a 
white sleeveless uniform shirt. My hair is tightly pulled back in the
quintessential ponytail, sweat dripping off my skin and dirt covering
my socks. My face is frozen in an expression of relief, domination, and
triumph after scoring the game-winning goal in the merciless sun of
a Houston summer. I study the image and wipe a single tear from my
eye. My knee aches sympathetically, and I prepare to hang the picture.
As I pick up the hammer, I realize that although soccer is no longer a
part of my life, I have filled the vacancy in my heart with other challenging
and significant activities that I have grown to love with the
same fervor. That picture, though simple, encompasses the passion that
is my life. It will forever symbolize for me the love and dedication I
have for everything I do.
With a last glance, I hang the heavy frame on the wall. The box
is empty, unlike the room. Although the room is only filled by a few
items, it is occupied by the only items I will ever need for the rest of my
life: friendship, humility, self-expression, family, god, and passion.
BEcAUSE I FINd LIFE’S INTrIcAcY So amazing, biology and its related
subjects are the most enjoyable topics for me. Within biology our
brains interest me the most, which—with their countless neurons and
chemicals—give us unmatched emotion, uniqueness, and potential.
Due to the possibilities of understanding emotions and mental problems
from their source, I’d like to develop a great understanding of
neuroscience, and use it to help people overcome diseases and mental
barriers as a doctor, allowing them to achieve the highest possible quality
of life.
Brown University would also give me the greatest ability to help
people. With their deep community involvement and famous neuroscience
department, I would have an outstanding opportunity to help
people as I develop the utmost understanding of neurology. The open
curriculum will also bring me more benefits. The ability to study multiple
languages and social sciences will help me interact and exchange
ideas with fewer limits. Moreover, the curriculum will allow me to be-
come an outstanding scientist. The way in which this could help me
scientifically is best summarized in the words of my biology professor
at Kent State University: “One of our major inhibiting factors in addressing
more complicated issues of science is that scientists need to
have a sweeping grasp of multiple disciplines such as psychology, biology,
convention physics, and quantum physics. And if that wasn’t bad
enough, you’re going to need amazing writing skills to convey your
ideas to other people and seem credible.” I don’t necessarily expect
to achieve full mastery in the four or five years I spend as an undergraduate,
but I believe Brown is where I’ll have the best opportunity
to advance in these areas. To expand even more, the open curriculum
would allow me to surround myself with individuals that are just as
passionate about languages and sciences as I am. With these classmates
I would love to have great conversations and even participate in research.
Attending Brown University will bring me all of these things,
which will aid me in becoming the best doctor and scientist I can possibly
be.
ThE FAmoUS GrEEK mAThEmATIcIAN ArchImEdES oNcE said,
“give me a lever long enough and a fulcrum on which to place it, and I
shall move the world.” The basic principle of a lever is that as the length
of a lever increases, the effort needed to be exerted to accomplish a task
decreases. This fundamental law can also apply to life. Life’s levers are
experiences and opportunities that combine to motivate the individual
to succeed. However, a lever is useless when forced upon an incorrectly
placed fulcrum. Fulfilling oneself with passion and values is to build
and place a strong and stable fulcrum. Without a passion for success,
these opportunities and experiences become obsolete. Few find the
correct balance between these variables and thus fail to reach their full
potential. I, however, plan to be someone who finds that balance.
In an effort to build a successful lever for myself, I have searched
for these experiences and opportunities all of my life. I have always
had a passion for learning and a natural drive to succeed. At the beginning
of my sophomore year in high school, I began to volunteer
at a local, family owned zoo. This idea came from an innate passion
for animals and an ongoing interest in science. At first, it was simply
to complete a community service graduation requirement, but soon
thereafter, I realized it was so much more. Work there was not like
what most zoo volunteers experience. When other volunteers were
following zookeepers and watching animals through cages at larger
commercial zoos, I was spending nights “monkeysitting” my supervisor’s
newborn Japanese snow macaque. However, calling it work
solely alludes to labor. It was more of a life-altering, unique opportunity
and provided me with the experience that clenched my decision
to major in animal science.
Along with my passion for animals, I am also always looking for
ways to challenge myself intellectually. I am an active member of my
school’s Envirothon and Math teams and a Science Olympiad competitor.
After high school, it has always been a goal of mine to attend an
academically competitive university. A few years of researching brought
me to Cornell’s College of Agriculture and Life Sciences (CALS). After
attending the CALS open house and information lecture on the animal
science department, I knew it was the perfect fit. One of the reoccurring
themes of my conversations with students and professors alike was
CALS dedication to shaping students into leaders.
With the experience I have gained in working at the zoo, I see myself
emerging as a natural leader. Leaders are those few who do manage
to balance the use of their “lever and fulcrum.” In high school, I also
have worked my way to positions such as; nHS President, Steel Drums
Ensemble President, and Student representative to the School Board.
Leadership roles like these are not something I plan to make the past
after high school. In a school like CALS that has so many extracurricular
activities to get involved in, I am sure obtaining positions similar to
the ones I hold now would not be difficult. One of the clubs that I have
seriously explored is the Pre-vet Society. veterinary School is something
that I plan to pursue after college and hope to get involved in at
the undergraduate level.
The building of a successful lever has only just begun for me. There
is still so much that I have not seen or done. Life is full of opportunities 
that can lead to great experiences, one of my greatest being volunteering
at the Woodland Zoo. With all of the opportunities CALS has to
offer, if given the chance to attend, I am certain that I would utilize
every one; becoming not only an active member of the university, but
a leader of tomorrow.
EVErYoNE KNowS ThAT IT TAKES BoTh hard work and a good
understanding of the subject in order to complete a project. However,
I never appreciated the other academic strengths and personal qualities
needed until my 11th grade physics final. The task was to create an
energy conversion machine that would undergo a minimum of five energy
conversions. The construction of the machine piqued my interest
in pursuing an engineering career and later became the pivotal factor in
my decision to apply to Caltech.
I knew from the beginning that it would be a challenge to complete
just the minimum requirements for the project. Believing that my
teammates and I had the ability and potential to do better, as the team
leader, I made it our goal to cover the conversions of all eight energy
types that were taught in class. I also strived to add into the machine
a bonus feature of breaking an egg. Struggling to find a solution for
breaking the egg, I reflected upon the force of gravity we had learned.
This idea led to a trap-door mechanism that would allow the egg to fall
under gravity and break upon impact.
In addition to excelling in math and the sciences, I am also a strong
visual art student. Enjoying drawing and designing, I gained a different
perspective that I may not have had as just a science student. The
creativity and imagination from the visual arts allowed me to use toilet 
paper rolls, Styrofoam, and Popsicle sticks as the primary materials to
construct the machine in a limited space within limited time. Together
with good planning, coordination, and the ability to work in a team, my
innovative perspective from visual arts made this project a success.
On the due date, I watched with a prideful glee as the machine
operated smoothly. For going beyond the minimum requirements, the
machine was very well received. Beyond earning an excellent grade, the
challenge of completing this project intrigued my increasing interest in
engineering. My expectations and goals as a future college student were
also evolved during the process.
Certain that I wanted to become a professional in the engineering
field, I began searching for a college that would provide me with an excellent
academic and hands-on experience. While I knew that Caltech
is a prestigious science and engineering school, it wasn’t until I received
the Caltech Signature Award that I developed a stronger interest in becoming
a Techer. Upon further research, I realized that Caltech is the
college for me.
At Caltech, my engineering aspirations will be realized in this challenging,
research-integrated environment. The rigorous coursework
and the generous research opportunities at Caltech will provide the
challenge I need to achieve my goal of becoming an engineer. In return,
I believe the combination of my academic strength and creative
personal characteristics will definitely contribute to Caltech and help to
add to the interdisciplinary atmosphere of the school.
It takes more than just hard work to succeed as an engineering professional.
However, it can be achieved with the outstanding educational
opportunity at Caltech and with my other academic strengths and personal
qualities.
Boy! Was I disappointed to receive your letter! However, I do welcome
the chance to explain more clearly my values, passions and reasons
why I think Duke is my first choice.
My application and recommendation letters stated my scientific
accomplishments. The passive thermoacoustic cooling device we presented
at the Intel International Science and Engineering Fair (Intel 
ISEF) won the Best of Team Category and First Award, among numerous
other special prizes. We patented this device and are working with
Taiwan’s Compal Corporation, your computer could very well be using
parts built by them, to iron out a few more problems and to eventually
share this revolutionary product with the world. now I would like to
talk about more about just who Pen-Yuan Hsing is.
My education started in the US when I was 7. Having come from
Taiwan, faced with enormous cultural and language barriers, I had to
learn to adapt. Overcoming loneliness and self-conflict, I made lifelong
friends and English became in many ways my mother tongue. returning
to Taiwan in fourth grade mirrored this difficult transition. Some may
find me quiet and reserved, it’s because I learned to listen, and understand.
Yet when the time comes, I do take the initiative and let my voice
be heard, as my friends, teachers and parents can so often attest.
Years later, I was unanimously elected as the head of Taipei Wetnet,
a student-run organization that promotes environmental education and
awareness. We hold seasonal conferences on environmental matters for
students from all over northern Taiwan to participate. One story really
struck a chord in me.
For many years the Waimushan coastline was littered with thousands
of plastic beads used in the fabrication of plastic products. Wildlife
there mistook the beads as food and stuffed themselves to death. One
can see many half-decomposed animals filled with plastic beads in their
bodies. Our organization filed a report to local authorities requesting
an investigation. The mayor learned of this and bought truckloads of
sand to cover up the beach. This successful “cleanup” of the coast got
him re-elected a second term in office. Two months later, the extra layer
of sand was washed away by tides, re-exposing the plastic beads and
animals started dying again. We weren’t willing to settle for that. People
do not realize that whatever harm we do to the environment is ultimately
done on ourselves. This is what Taipei Wetnet tries to convey in all of
our activities. We started as just a few friends taking an excursion to the
beach, but now Taipei Wetnet has impact on the national level. We had
meetings on environmental policy and education with officials from the
presidential level. I am grateful to have been the head of Taipei Wetnet
during this extraordinary time. Of course, all my accomplishments, science
projects and environmental activities, do have their share of difficulties
and setbacks. It is through them that I learned the most.
For a student to do these things in Taiwan’s test-score-oriented culture
is considered a highly risky venture. My science project didn’t win
for several years in a row; I was warned to either stick to the traditional
path of cramming and testing, or “face the consequences.” Under
tremendous social pressure, I persisted, having faith that the skills I
gained are more important. I like the apprehension of waiting for data
to collect and the eventual thrill of seeing things finally turn out right,
especially an experiment you labored on for countless nights. I like the
satisfaction that what you are doing is making a difference in the world,
such as the life changing experience of participating in Taipei Wetnet’s
activities. Last year, my work was finally recognized in the world’s largest
scientific gathering, the Intel ISEF. They even named a celestial object
after me, the “minor planet” Hsingpenyuan, with others like Einstein
and Cleopatra. While gratifying, this experience only made me more
humble and dedicated. The average lifespan of a Taiwanese male is
around 70 years. Almost through one-third of it, I do not want to waste
the rest trying to be someone else. This is why my first choice is Duke.
What first caught my eye was the Focus Program, with its interdisciplinary
education and service learning opportunities. In fact, the
first paper I co-authored and presented was about Taipei Wetnet’s experience
in environmental service learning. A course in Duke’s special
research Service-Learning program will definitely be one I plan to take.
I am also very interested in Duke’s environmental science major. In
many schools, it would be great if it even has a minor in environmental
science or policy. In that case, they often lack actual hands-on training
and accumulation of field experience. However, the nicholas School’s
course and curriculum not only offers a solid education in basic science,
it also provides ample opportunity for field study through unique
facilities such as the Marine Lab and the Duke Forest. This is exactly
what I think how we should learn about the environment, by actually
doing something and seeing change. With Duke’s unique opportunities,
I can continue to do research starting from my first year. (Also
worth mentioning is the mild weather, definitely a plus for a Taiwanese
student like me!)
I look forward to becoming a Blue Devils fan, and perhaps even get
a Kville experience. I also love reading science fiction and playing the
piano. One great story I read was The Days Between by Allen Steele,
it’s about a man who suddenly woke up alone on a spacecraft that is 
still 200 years from its destination. Steele’s vivid description of how
the character coped with loneliness and his determination to survive
resonated within me. This also happens when I listen to Chopin. I try
to rush home before 10 each night, the unofficial time limit for playing
music in our apartment, to play the piano. Chopin’s music, torn with
great strife and conflict, yet with a romantically optimistic touch, is
something I could relate to, that I can share my feelings with. I would
love to take a Piano Course if I may come to Duke.
My unique qualities and experiences, so diverse yet intrinsically
intertwined, allowed me to become the first Taiwanese student ever
to receive the Ministry of Education’s full scholarship award to study
abroad. With full backing of this scholarship, I strongly believe that
armed with a strong Duke education, I will be able to make a difference
in the world.
Finally, I would like to express my deepest thanks for all the time
and effort you have placed in the application process. My mother is a
professor at the national Taiwan University who is agonizing right now
over their undergraduate applications. This, along with my own background
and experience helped me understand how difficult it must be
to make an admission decision, as it has the potential to change the
future of the world.
